**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** So welcome to early days of Ethereum. I'm Bob Samuel here at Dark Prague with my good friend, exiled server, Michael Parenti.

**[00:12] SPEAKER_01:** Hello. Hey. Good to see you again, Bob. Good to see you too. It's the first place, first city we ever met. Right. Right. DEFCON four, man.

**[00:24] SPEAKER_00:** Yes. 2018.

**[00:27] SPEAKER_01:** First hug that I got from you. There there we are. You were competing with Griff for being the best hug. Right. Well, there we go. There we go. Yeah. So, I mean, we've worked together in a number of different contexts.

**[00:43] SPEAKER_00:** since. But today, you know, really wanted to talk to you in terms of the early days of Ethereum Project and looking back to beginnings. So, I mean, what were you doing in the couple of years before any Ethereum involvement?

**[01:02] SPEAKER_01:** Before Ethereum involvement, I was at the Bitcoin Foundation. Mhmm. Basically. Yeah. So that that was that was my place in the craziness of this space going through. I joined the Bitcoin Foundation just months before Mt. Gox collapsed.

**[01:25] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. That was a fun time.

**[01:30] SPEAKER_01:** Right. And you know Mark Capellas was one of the founders, co-founders of the Bitcoin Foundation. Magical Tux. That was really funny. Yeah. And then Charlie Shrem getting arrested. Right?

**[01:45] SPEAKER_00:** Two of your directors getting, you know, arrested in short order is not really fantastic.

**[01:52] SPEAKER_01:** So that was an interesting time. And so, I mean, in terms of Ethereum, Vitalik was on the scene, you know, very early as a Bitcoiner. Right?

**[02:07] SPEAKER_00:** So active young in the start, Yeah. 17,

**[02:13] SPEAKER_01:** I think. Yeah. And then, Bitcoin Magazine started, right? Together with him and Mihai started that up. And so Vitalik was on my radar just because he was president of the community. You know, there were so few of us at the time. Right? It's like stunning how few people there were at the beginning, you know, and how present a lot of those people still are. Yeah. And so, I was following, you know, we had blogs before social media, right? Right. Long form writing, who'd have thought? Long form writing. And so I still had my RSS feeds and Vitalik had a blog. So he was in my RSS feeds and one day he posted something about Ethereum. And so I like, okay, cool. You know? Was that first thing, was it the white paper or did he No, no, no. Was just some posts He was talking about the future of digital autonomous corporations Right. And and DAOs, right? And I forget what the exact title of the blog post was that announced I remember there was something that was like ultimate scripting.

**[03:28] SPEAKER_00:** Does that sound familiar? Because I know prior to getting to that sort of baked Ethereum vision, because he had been doing work, you know, within Mastercoin, Coloredcoin Right. That there was, you know, some of these pre phases of, well, how could you do different kind of scripting and then an uncertainty of where that might land. So that term doesn't really ring a

**[03:58] SPEAKER_01:** bell with me or whatever. But, so anyway, so he he posted about Ethereum for the first time on his blog and I tweeted that out and so apparently, I'm the first person that ever

**[04:12] SPEAKER_00:** tweeted about Ethereum as my claim to fame in the early Ethereum space. So we're gonna have to dig out that tweet, aren't we? And then find the exact date on that and then maybe

**[04:26] SPEAKER_01:** the internet archive can find the blog No, it's there. It's on it's The original? It's No, no, still it's on Twitter. I've I've No, no, I mean in

**[04:39] SPEAKER_00:** of the actual link to the blog I

**[04:42] SPEAKER_01:** think the I think the the link in the tweet is still valid. K. Yeah. On on Vitalik's blog. And finally, I when the NFT craze happened, there was this project called SENT, and they, you know, you could turn a tweet into an NFT. And that's c e n t. Right? Yes. C e n t. I get this message. I get I get a DM from somebody, hey, you know, if you mint this as a tweet, I'll, you know, I'll buy it. You know. And I was like, how much do you want to buy it for? And he's like, you know, I'll give you $200. And I was like, for the first tweet of Ethereum? Nah, but I guess I'll mint it. Right? You know? Yep. And so, so I minted the tweet and ended up so it's actually the second most expensive tweet behind Jack Dorsey's tweet. I was gonna say that. I remembered because Jack did his first, didn't he? Yeah. Like, the his very first tweet. Yeah. So, those two those two tweets are the are the highest, you know, paid for a for a tweet. There you go. And so, I I I I minted it and some crackhead like NFT trader in Dubai, you know, bought it off me for for 21, $21,000. Right? That's fantastic. And, and so I the guy that originally messaged me, I gave him 10% of that. Oh, nice. And he was in Argentina and he was a school teacher. Wow. And he took that 2,100 and he turned it into like an educational program for for for, Ethereum in Argentina. Wow. Like turned it into a career. Like a year later, he brought me back and he was like, wow man, that was so cool that you you did that and it meant it's totally changed my life and like now I'm teaching about Ethereum and I have school class with children I have all of these things and I'm living from being an ethereum educator. Right. Right. Awesome. Awesome. So that was the that was the earliest time Yeah. About Ethereum and So, it's probably November 2013, I'd have thought. Yeah, exactly. November 2013. Yeah. Around around that. I I think that's exactly when it was.

**[06:58] SPEAKER_00:** Like like you say, I guess there's some prior blogs before. Right, here's a fully formed white paper, which then he sent out to some random group of people, and they passed it on to further people, and that was sort of how the beginning of that the people getting together to start doing that happened.

**[07:21] SPEAKER_01:** So I have like another sort of like interconnection that the first time I ever spent Bitcoin that I earned from the Bitcoin Foundation, I bought whiskey for Smari McCarthy and Asta Fish, who were two of the parliamentarians in Iceland from the pirate party. Oh, yeah, yeah. And Smari McCarthy, you know, was one of the early WikiLeaks guys. Right? Okay. And they, they were sitting in York Platzer's bar in, in Berlin, Room 77, which is where the earliest Bitcoin meetups were happening. Okay. Okay. And also was the first place that you could buy alcohol With crypto. Right. With Bitcoin. Yeah. And so, Smari had tweeted that he was going going to York's bar and I was like, okay, cool. I've definitely gotta buy you a whiskey. So like, we did this over Twitter and I and I, you know, I published the transaction, you know, on Twitter. Right. Right. Like to see that it was confirmed and I, you know, bought them whiskey in York Right. And so, York Platzer is one of the original members here of Parallel Only Polis. Right? Oh, yeah. Right. Okay. Role that I have here now of kind of being the the one that packs it all together and gives like a vibe of, you know, where we're at in the space or where we're at in the house Right. Was what used to do Right. Right. Here. And so, yeah, there's like an interesting connection. And so Room 77 Yep. Is actually where it is that Vitalik and Gavin decided to literally to actually do Ethereum. Right. Right. Gavin was introduced to Vitalik by Amir who's also here in the house. So like this house is really like interconnected for me with all of these people, this social nexus. Yeah. Yeah.

**[09:37] SPEAKER_00:** But but, yeah, you'd mentioned the yellow paper. The timeline on that is both Gav and Jeff Wilker, started their Ethereum stuff within days of each other just after Christmas. So, you know, like or just before actually. So GAMF's first commit was 12/23/2013, and I think Jeff's was at like a couple of days later.

**[10:08] SPEAKER_01:** 2013,

**[10:10] SPEAKER_00:** man. Well, so it was basically like a thing to do over the Christmas holidays, I think, for both of them. Yeah. If you look at the email, right, or the about me,

**[10:24] SPEAKER_01:** you know, message that you have, you know, think it's like

**[10:30] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. So so Gav said, you know, hey, Johnny gave me the heads up about Ethereum. So that was I mean, oh goodness. I forget his name now. James Harrison. Anyway, he was one of the guys in London. So with with EMEA. So, you know, Gav had met Johnny through EMEA, and Johnny had told him about Ethereum, and then he contacted Vitalik. Yeah. But then, yeah, they got going there.

**[11:06] SPEAKER_01:** Then there was Right. And Cody Wilson was in was there as well. Right. Right. Yep. Cody Cody in there. And That's the other picture. I I saw the shot of video Yeah. Video of Cody in So Canada. So Jan yeah. So January of of twenty fourteen, you had the Bitcoin Miami where Ethereum first got announced, and then they had the house that Anthony DiOrio had rented where they all sort of met physically for the first time. Well, not everyone, but many, many people. Yeah. So these were things that were all tangentially on my online presence. Right? Right. Right. I mean, you know, you talk about crypto Twitter, and it's truly, really the place where, you know, all of these these social groups intersected. You knew what people were doing because people were posting about what's what's what's going on. So then, you you asked me about Berlin. But then, sorry. So so, yeah, it was by April,

**[12:09] SPEAKER_00:** they had this Bitcoin Expo in Toronto, but that was also when the yellow paper had been done. So gathered spent those four months basically building the first working client and doing the the yellow paper spec. Yeah.

**[12:26] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. But Berlin, you were saying? Yeah. So so and, you know, so Berlin here in Europe was, you know, the basically the city. You know, so there's Prague for the crypto anarchists. Right? But Berlin is really was the city for Ethereum. Right? And so I was involved with the Department of decentralization. Right? So also doing what it is I do here as an emcee on stage at ETH Berlin with with the DOD. And then also, we did the launch of Goerli Net. Right? Yeah. Yep. So there, also in in Berlin, It was a DOD production. Do you know where the funding for that came from? It was just that there was no funding. For Goerli. Sorry. Was no funding for Goerli. They just they just did it. A free and mister Ligi, you know, and it was like two or three people that, you know, that that deployed GoerliNet, you know. So I can tell you the answer is actually from the ETC cooperative. Funding for GoerliNet came from the ETC cooperative. Yeah.

**[13:28] SPEAKER_00:** So it was supposedly a collaboration between the ETC cooperative and the Ethereum Foundation, but then the foundation didn't come through with their money. I think they did later,

**[13:40] SPEAKER_01:** but yes, that's how that happened. So I was there as so we hosted the conference there, GoerliCon. There's in my in my YouTube playlist. There's the GoerliCon, you know, hosting video.

**[13:52] SPEAKER_00:** Then also when we deployed when we deployed it, you know, like pressing the button watching the screen. Yeah. It's all live. Yeah. Because there were actually two that were launched that day. Yeah. Which was Goerli and Coty. Yeah. So Coty was the ECC version. Yeah. That's right. But but yeah, that was funded by the ITZY cooperative. That's fucking hilarious.

**[14:20] SPEAKER_01:** Right? Yeah. So so Berlin is a is a major place in in in Europe because, you know, I can't travel off the continent. Right. Right? So so I was never able to go to London and, you know, be in London or go to East Denver or anything like that. Yeah. So, so I I got active in Ethereum. The reason I got active in Ethereum was after the block wars. Right? Right. And I mean, Bitcoin was just so toxic. Right?

**[14:53] SPEAKER_00:** And Just thinking nothing's ever gonna happen here. This is Traumatized, like

**[15:02] SPEAKER_01:** whatever. Yeah. And then there was just all of this bright eyed, bushy tailed, idealistic unicorns and glitter, you know. Yes. And I'm an old hippie. Right? And it just was like a natural. It was like a moth to a flame, you know, to be involved with it there. Quite a different vibe. And so so ETH Berlin was a very, very cool thing at that time. And at that time, I was working with Status.

**[15:38] SPEAKER_00:** Right. Right. Right. I was the resident cypherpunk at Status. Were many of those in Europe? What do you mean? So like on status, where were people working on status based generally? Or all over There the was obviously a Berlin entity, you know, so Karl, one of the cofounders.

**[16:05] SPEAKER_01:** So obviously, you know, they were doing the jurisdictional arbitrage between a foundation for management of their token and then where it is. But Berlin was the entity where a lot of people were paid out of, and then they have a Singapore entity, I believe, and stuff. Yeah. But we were distributed. Right. Right. We were distributed, you know, $24.07 status. And so that was that was really cool. So that's so with with with ETH status and and department centralization was my was my primary involvement. Right. So by being in Berlin, you know, you're involved with with Gnosis. Right? And and what was the the video streaming? Live. Yeah. Anyway, they were another huge 2017 ICO that was based in Berlin. Yeah. You know, because we had Full Note there. Right. Right. Yeah.

**[16:59] SPEAKER_00:** So Did did you ever spend time, like, visiting or within the f dev or parity offices?

**[17:08] SPEAKER_01:** So I never I never were in either either the offices, but you know, I know numerous people. So so Kai Gethler, who's the system administrator for Geth. Right. Right? And a lot of other things, was like in ETH cat herders stuff like that. Why did I want to mention Kai? And the emphasis. So he and I put together when when when COVID hit. Right. Okay? Edcon was supposed to be in Vienna. Right. And so that was all that was in 2019. And that was the year that I decided to open a Parallel in Vienna. Right. Right. And I thought, okay, I'll do the launch during ETH con. Okay. And I've got all the Ethereum people, you know, here and then I'll do a side event Yeah. To announce the launch of Parallel Depolis. Right? Right. And then it was like, no, Chinese people can't come to Vienna. Right. Right? That's And so they're like, okay, but we're still gonna do Edcon. Right? K. And then the full shutdown came. Yeah. But everybody had their tickets booked to to ETH con in Vienna. Right? And so I was like, well, fuck it. I'm gonna do I'm gonna do this is before the total shutdown. I'm like, okay, I'm gonna do non con. Right. And so I booked a venue and and then came the full shutdown and so I did a virtual conference. Was three days with four tracks with I think 80 speakers and Kai and I wrote a program called InnerSpace. And InnerSpace was an integrated online convention portal which had integrated Google Calendar and Jitsi video conferencing Right. And integration with Discord and Telegram. Right? So that you had all of the all of that in one portal. Right. And we launched that with non con. Okay. And, so that's all online. Right. Non con under the parallel Napolit Vienna Yeah. Site. Yeah. So that was, you know, it just sort of like was obvious for me. Like, I'm I'm interested in people who are who are building. Right? Yep. You know, I'm a true cypherpunk in that sense. Know, deploy the code, show me, do it as you're doing. And I've just been on the convention side, and that was so my this is where my involvement has been in Ethereum, that and and community building. Right? Right. Right. And so through that, I I got to meet pretty much, you know, like, everybody. Yep. You know? But Gavin Wood was the last one that I actually met personally. Oh, right. For the first time here May. Right. He came to Pizza Day. And so he's speaking here today. He is speaking in forty minutes. In forty minutes. Right? So, yeah. So so tangentially, you know, get to meet a lot of the people. I also worked at at Brainbot for the Trust Line Foundation Right. Yeah. Yeah. With with Heiko. Yeah. He's and, you know, another early person. And that's Yeah. Jacob was there Right. Left to us. Right? Yeah. Yeah. You know? Right. So but these these core people, it's it's Yeah. Yeah. It's so interesting. It this whole thing for me is really wild because I never really came, although there's an ideological underpinning and a natural, you know, do it yourself ethic that comes out of the punk or the hippie, you know, roots it is that I have out of California where it is that we built the internet, whatever. And I've always just been around interested in the people and the, you know, the sympathetic people and the doers. Right? Yep. And they're not necessarily the public faces that you see and everybody knows or that are allowed in this space, you know, because that's a different part. I've just been like around the devs, you know? Yep. The silent, you know, the silent underpinning, the silent foundation of what actually happens in the space. Right?

**[19:45] SPEAKER_00:** Has Ethereum, you know, become what you thought it might be? You know, how much of a what you know, the vision of what what could happen there do you think has has actually happened?

**[20:03] SPEAKER_01:** So I had two I had two viewpoints, I think, that are common to to early Bitcoiners. Right? Anything that can be built on another chain can eventually be deployed on Bitcoin. Right? Yep. Very common early belief. And and so there's this also this sort of like move fast, break things, you know, sort of culture of Ethereum, which I really liked and I was always a and I always thought, yeah, cool. I'm really happy that all this stuff is happening on Ethereum like a sandbox. Right? Yep. Yep. And not happening on Bitcoin. Right? Yep. Yep. So so, I mean, look at the look at the ecosystem. You know? I think that one of the coolest things that that Ethereum enabled was was crowdfunding. Right. Right? Yep. Just this completely alternative economy that created stocks, shareholder you know what I mean? And it's in a completely new form that just was so direct. Yes. Right? Yep. It's it's like amazing. The whole world should literally work like that. And I so I love that aspect of Ethereum is that they is that they just fucking did it. Yep. That literally we issued, created companies Yep. Created oh, there's no jurisdiction where we can register and do ourselves. Fuck it. We're gonna build DAOs. Yep. You know what I mean? Yep. And and so so all of this fabulous permissionless stuff has happened on Ethereum that could not culturally happen on Bitcoin and may not ever actually happen on Bitcoin Yep. With the way that it's becoming part of the traditional finance. Yeah. Yep. Yep. So another thing that I think is really interesting is seeing the is seeing what's going on now with actually enterprise Ethereum. And you were at the EA at the beginning which was super logical for me. Right? Yep. But it was too early because there wasn't really any clients. You were just doing educational Pilots. Pilots and whatever. But now we're actually there. So I mean, you know, the promise of Ethereum, I think, is well, well, well exceeded its initial Yeah. Sort of,

**[22:16] SPEAKER_00:** you know No. I mean, it is kind of mind blowing to see, you know, these huge, you know, financial companies, you know, saying, yep. You know, we're we're building an L2 or we're we're building a, you know, an EBS L1. Yep.

**[22:34] SPEAKER_01:** So, you know, Swift's The way that I got in my first paid job at the Bitcoin Foundation Yeah. Was John Matonis, who was the director of the Bitcoin Foundation, went to came to Vienna to talk to bankers and diplomats. Price. Right? He's like, oh, Michael. And I just knew him from Twitter. Yep. And he's like, oh, I'm gonna be in town. Right? Let's have a coffee. Right? And at that coffee, he said, hey, listen. We need new branding and a new website for the Bitcoin Foundation. Do you think you can do that? Because there's a vote coming up and it's gonna change and we think these people are gonna be due. And I agreed to do that. Right? But when he left Vienna, he went to Swift. Right. This is 2013. Right. Right. Right. So is Swift doing anything on Bitcoin? No. Why is it not doing anything on Bitcoin? Because Bitcoiners were too dumb to just go ahead and do it back then when add the scripting and composability and everything Yeah. Onto Bitcoin in the way it is that all the L2s are now doing All the L2s are a form of Ethereum. Right? So, you know, it's it's quite wild quite wild to see and it's a, you know, huge circle for me just to see that announcement from Swift that they're doing an L two. You know? Yep.

**[23:49] SPEAKER_00:** So Swift, then you've got Stripe, you know, with with Tempo, Stripe and Friends. Kinda looks like a bit of a Libra again. Yeah. But, you know, same same kind of tech base. And then Nasdaq announced

**[24:03] SPEAKER_01:** Robinhood you had as well. So, I mean, I always I always figure that it doesn't really matter where the chains are, who owns them, and who who controls them, whether they're, you know, degree of centralized or decentralized or whatever. Yeah. Because there's always gonna be a bridge. And if there's not a bridge, there's gonna be a tokenized representation of it to trade on it. So this sort of idea of a borderless economy. Yep. Right? If the cat's out of the bag. Yes. And everybody is catching up and it's gonna be interesting to see where we're at in ten years. Yeah. I think that Bitcoiners and Ethereum are gonna be incredibly disappointed, but that's what happens when you percolate the tech the the, you know, the tech into the world is you you don't know what's actually gonna be the end game. But the fact of the matter is is that the tech revolution has happened. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely.

**[25:06] SPEAKER_00:** Most certainly. Okay. Well, thanks so much. Great chatting to you. Great catching up with you Yeah. As always, and

**[25:19] SPEAKER_01:** all the very best. I'll get you some archives for your for your site. Excellent. Yeah. Do In pictures. Find find goodies.

**[25:30] SPEAKER_00:** You know, we we love digital artifacts, you know, photos, links, you know, find that first tweet, memories, you know, I wanna record everything I can. And

**[25:41] SPEAKER_01:** thank you so much, man, for being present in my life professionally and and personally and in this amazing space, man. You're like one of the you're one of the like the top people in the space for me, man. Well, thanks so much.

**[26:04] SPEAKER_00:** All the very best. Bye bye.