**[00:00] SPEAKER_01:** Okay. Welcome everyone. We have a very special and very timely topic today: privacy on-chain and the rise of Zcash. And we sort of have a special guest today. So I'm Victor Wong. I am founder and Chief Product Officer at BlockApps. I'll get to our normal guests, but today we have Jim. Do you want to give us a quick intro?

**[00:20] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I've known Victor and Kieran for years. I'm one of the founders of BlockApps and CTO.

**[00:26] SPEAKER_01:** And you're here particularly because I would call you a Zcash expert, having written your own Zcash client.

**[00:32] SPEAKER_02:** Well, I think I'm more aspirational at this point in time. I mean, the way I learn about things is I try to—

**[00:37] SPEAKER_03:** How many more expert people do you think there are on, say, Zcash in particular on the planet?

**[00:42] SPEAKER_02:** No, the problem that I have is that I was sort of halfway in the learning process last year. So the way I learn about things is I try to write a client for it. So I was doing that, but then we got pulled in different directions. I got to the point where I had sort of replicated the actual client that could connect. It would bring the data and it would bring the proofs in, but just about when I was getting to the good part, that's when we moved on to other things.

**[01:06] SPEAKER_03:** Well, I'm going to answer my own question. You put the number between like 10 and 100, maybe 10.

**[01:11] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, I would say there's definitely less than 20 people who have written their own Zcash clients, probably.

**[01:16] SPEAKER_03:** Well, yeah, there's probably some core contributors. I imagine there's more than a handful into Zcash. But when Jim says non-expert, it's like—let's say, yes, I'll expand the range—five to 100 people who understand Zcash better on the planet. Big, big range there, but we're talking about pretty small numbers in absolute terms. Yes, exactly.

**[01:34] SPEAKER_01:** I would say if Jim's not an expert, I don't know what even expert means. Anyways, Kieran, do you want to give a quick intro of yourself?

**[01:41] SPEAKER_03:** Certainly. I'm our CEO, been on these before. By the way, Vic, you're letting Jim off the hook calling him a special guest. He has to do this all the time now with our continued public presence. Not special in the future. Special today.

**[01:53] SPEAKER_01:** Today is special, but it's the first of many. Let's just say that.

**[01:57] SPEAKER_00:** I was looking through the prior videos. Jim has never appeared on one of our own spaces. He's only been on early days of Ethereum.

**[02:03] SPEAKER_03:** Okay.

**[02:04] SPEAKER_01:** There you go. But it won't be special soon. Bob, by the way, since you've spoken up, can you give a quick intro to yourself?

**[02:10] SPEAKER_00:** So hi, I'm Bob. I'm Head of Ecosystem. And yeah, been doing a lot of spaces.

**[02:15] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. So I think, you know, to level set, because I think there's a lot of misunderstanding about what privacy is. How would you define blockchain privacy and why do you think it's important?

**[02:25] SPEAKER_00:** Who's that question for?

**[02:27] SPEAKER_01:** Could be for anyone, whoever wants to go.

**[02:30] SPEAKER_03:** Kieran, you want to kick us off? I assume the viewer is pretty deep in the space, but I'll bring it down to a fairly low technical level. So blockchains are great. They let you move digitally scarce value from party to party. And the way that this is typically done is that you've got a big address which is almost but not quite a public key, and you sort of sign a message that says, "I, Kieran"—but it's not Kieran because it's this address—"send three Bitcoin to Bob." And it doesn't say Bob, it's another address. You don't quite know who either of those parties are. However, you've got the address forever. And often it is the case that you can piece together what happened based on that address. So say you're on a centralized exchange which has KYC'd. It knows how to associate you to maybe a withdrawal address. It may not know down the line. But if you start to get a bunch of data points, you can kind of piece together who sent what to whom. And you're actually in an extremely transparent scenario where everyone's financial transactions are visible to everyone. And while it's a cryptographic technology, it's not necessarily a private technology. And this has been a problem both in the consumer setting—just for, you know, people don't like this. Satoshi makes a comment, I believe, in the white paper saying that obviously, to prevent the double spend problem—which basically is just to ensure that Bitcoin can't be created or destroyed except by the agreed mechanism—you need to know the whole history. And so he sees the problem as intrinsic. But some technology has come out later that maybe calls that into question that we'll talk about. It's also an enterprise problem. So we can talk separately about our experience there. Sort of what the enterprises want is kind of the same as what the public blockchain people want, except with selective visibility. So they want to say you're doing like an on-chain stock trade, which is actually now starting to happen. You sort of want to know the other party has the stock. You don't necessarily want to know who the other party is, but you want to know that they acquired that stock legitimately. And then when you get it, you want to be able to pass it on legitimately in the same way. And then there's sometimes this extra requirement that the regulator can see everything. So you want sort of an unlinkability of balance to person or company, but also this mass preservation property that we were talking about—you can't create or destroy assets. They have to be acquired legitimately, and so on. So it's a perennial problem and closer to solved, but we can go into that shortly.

**[05:00] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. Bob, did you want to add anything to that?

**[05:03] SPEAKER_00:** Yes. I mean, going back to those Bitcoin beginnings, in the Bitcoin white paper, it just talks about severing identity from transactions. But really, that's just pseudonymous, not anonymous. And I think a lot of people didn't understand that differentiation back in those early days. And it's like, "Oh, Bitcoin's private, untrackable digital money." But very rapidly, you have blockchain analytics coming in, looking for correlations and patterns. And it's like, yeah, you're not getting a lot of security. Even if you're not reusing addresses, just sort of normal things that people would do—there's lots of correlations. And you can get unmasked that way. But yeah, Satoshi did talk a bit about zero knowledge. I can't remember who raised it. Somebody raised it early and he was like, "Yeah, that would be interesting if we could do that." But a lot of that cryptography just hadn't happened. So Zcash started in 2016, and it was only around that kind of time or a little before that you started having these papers on SNARK constructions and going through all these different kinds of rounds. So yeah, what that's meant is Bitcoin and then Ethereum following that same path—they are an immutable public ledger forever. Ethereum even worse because it's an account model. So you are reusing the addresses all the time. And if your address is unmasked, you are forever doxxed. That's happened to at least one of the Ethereum founders who moved hundreds of millions of dollars out of a known address of his, which probably not desired.

**[06:30] SPEAKER_01:** And you guys have been talking about Satoshi, but Jim, I remember—I think it's like earlier, like 2014—Vitalik was talking like, "ZK-SNARKs will fix all of this at some point in time." Do you remember that at all?

**[06:41] SPEAKER_02:** Well, I mean, I think we went through a learning process about privacy, and we're understating this right now. Maybe it's because we put a lot of time and effort into some privacy solutions that technically worked but were a business failure, I think it's fair to say. And so the audience can learn from our failed mistakes in the past right now. But we sort of built—so we had heard years ago about ZK, but we sort of just, I don't know, at the time looked into it and said, "Oh, this looks overly complicated. You can get privacy through these other means." And we ended up building a system that allowed for quick spin-up of private chains. Everything was sort of in an encrypted tunnel, and you could have these chains completely secure and nobody else would see what was happening there. But long story short, slow learning process. We found out that customers want everything, and to the point that it made it worthless. We would go into enterprise, we would say, "Oh, you can set up these private channels with others." And they loved that because they could control that and they could control who goes in there. But then once everything was going through these private channels, then they wanted to be able to transfer from private chain to private chain. And that's where everything started to fall apart. And getting things back onto the main chain became this extra complicated system. And at the same time, customers wanted to have full flexibility in having extensions to Solidity where you could just name a chain and send some money from chain A to chain B. And really the only way to make that stuff work is you have to go back to ZK. So ZK is overly complicated, but it is necessary. And so we started looking at that again. But I think the safe thing to do is start with a proven technology, and Zcash had been around for years and nobody had stolen money. And this is just a subset of ZK, but it's kind of a cool thing. You can build what they call tumblers of money. You throw a bunch of money in, and then the money that you put into the tumbler—you know how much went in—but the ownership is completely scrambled up. And at any time, you can go and transfer money from within the tumbler from one user to another, but only the users who did the transferring and got the money know what was there. But nobody else can see what's happening. So again, you have these systems of multiple users with lots of money, but you don't know who owns a percentage of the money there.