**SPEAKER_04:**
[00:00] All righty, well, thanks everyone for coming back. We've done a couple of videos so we've done two on the early days of Ethereum and I actually did another video on identity following that which you can check out on my channel and
[00:05] In the process, we're excited to reconnect with Bob Summerwell. So Bob will ask to introduce himself in a second, but he actually went quite in depth in reaction to the videos and helping to work together to patch up the whole story from our collective memory on the early days of Ethereum. Wrote a long blog post that you should check out and we'll link in the notes.

**SPEAKER_00:**
[00:10] We asked him to join us here today to kind of dig more into the story and also just generally catch up. So with that, maybe I'll hand it to Bob to do a quick intro and we can just kind of get into it. So, yeah, hi, you know, thanks so much for the invite. You know, like I said to you guys, you know, I love those first two videos. You know, I love this history and it was great to
[00:15] you know, both hear that and have, you know, a slightly different perspective as well. You know, our paths have overlapped in some ways and haven't in others. So, you know, there are a few things that came up, which I, you know, I wasn't myself aware of. I mean, just for everyone's background about me and who I am. So I
[00:20] I got interested in blockchain in 2014, but it was 2015 where I really like kind of jumped in. And that happened because I was, I was working in Toronto. I had a six month contract and was working in Toronto around the same time that Ethereum was doing a mainland launch. And I'd actually met Vitalik for the first time in 2014, but, you know, just kind of following along a little bit, not actually doing anything.
[00:25] But then moving to Toronto, it's just like orders of magnitude more stuff going on and meetups and Anthony Di Iorio's Bitcoin Decentral co-working space and everything. So I got really very addicted.
[00:30] through that year and it was like, right, I can't not get involved, right? It's like you're there at the birth of the web or whatever and you've met Tim Berners-Lee and he's about to go live on the web and it's like, how can you not want to get involved? So I just started sort of volunteering and helping. My background prior to that was in the games industry, so like 15 years of C++.
[00:35] 15 years at C++. So I was like, well, you know, I can do something with CPP Ethereum. And I was really into mobile and wearables. So my first thing I set myself is, you know, can I get Ethereum running on my smartwatch? You know, could you get a smartwatch and go around and like, bing, there's some money, you know, that'd be really cool.
[00:40] So, uh, so yeah, I just started doing stuff on there. That was about the time that, that Gav was, um, part in company with, uh, with the foundation as well. So there was kind of a dearth of people on that team. Um, so, you know, like that period I ended up being like, I think the only person in the world who was actually helping on that, like, you know, no companies, no, nobody was helping.
[00:45] And then I ended up getting hired into the foundation in early 2016. And yeah, I've been involved on Ethereum, Enterprise Ethereum, Hyperledger, then more recently, Ethereum Classic. It's nearly a decade now.

**SPEAKER_02:**
[00:50] Yeah Bob I I well and to be open to everyone like world friends um and we're happy to have you as our first guest boost on this thing but also you are like uh you know the Nelson Mandela of the Ethereum Microsystem you you're friends with everyone you know you go you've been in everywhere so it's great to have your perspective on things thank you
[00:55] so i and friend as karen has mentioned for anyone who hasn't seen bob's blog post it's uh notionally a blog post almost a full novel probably a novella size it has pictures of a lot of the people we're talking about um you dug up so much content out of there were those your personal pictures and it's just stuff yeah yeah just stuff i i i had i mean another thing here is

**SPEAKER_00:**
[01:00] There's a couple of articles on my own blog from earlier that I linked into there as well, which was, there's one called Ethereum Foundation People and one called Ethereum Foundation Timeline. So I made those in late 2017, early 2018, because there was no canonical history of any of this. It's like, how did Ethereum start?
[01:05] I mean it's in people's heads it's all secondhand stories that you hear from people that were around but you know it's like what's true what isn't because I think especially on that like Foundation side it was such a mess right just like all different people weren't getting on blowing up kind of like Parity versus the Foundation and and Charles you know and like God what you know so
[01:10] it I think some people had almost taken this um position of like we don't talk about that right right because anything I say like it's going to offend somebody else so just la la la it doesn't matter that you know um but uh but yeah so I started gathering that list of well you know who were the people that were around in the pre-foundation days and then in that and um
[01:15] So, yeah, I've got this one page, this people page, which I think is really cool. So that's basically from 2013 through to early 2018, identifying anyone that I could that was involved with Ethereum pre-foundation or who worked for the foundation in those early years. And one of the things that's really great there is DevCon0,
[01:20] October 2014 so that was the very first devcom but it was a closed event that wasn't a public event yeah and it was it was foundation people at that time but there were also you know some other key Community sorts of people there as well and they did this one thing at the start that was introductions so there's this video that's about 15 or 20 minutes long of everybody like
[01:25] party I'm here doing you know proof of state research just see these these you know so young so many people that you know like really early 20s yeah you know and turning up and it's like that's you know that's so and so right and and some of these people as well you know they they're not involved anymore you know they're they're sort of like footnotes in history but but but you have that record and uh
[01:30] So, yeah, that list of people, I got all of that together. And the reason that that came about was in late 2017, I got a message from Laura Shin saying, hey, I hear Ming's been sacked at the foundation. Do you know anything about this? Right. And I said, well, no, I don't.
[01:35] but it wouldn't surprise me but uh you know basically it would be like Vitalik or maybe Hudson could tell you but like nobody nobody else could tell you anyway and you know it sort of came out well yeah she's you know she's not been sacked but she's agreed to leave right and then it's like well what's what's next so I contacted Vitalik and said you know hey is there anything I can do to help you know what can I do
[01:40] you know and he said well the one thing you can do is can you like try and talk to people and work out like you know what would good look like what do people think a good ethereum foundation would look like and so that started my sort of adventure really of like right i'm going to go and talk to all the founders all the other people and try and work out like you know what what
[01:45] And then that just turned into really a thought experiment on my side of like, okay, so my mind being was terrible. So how did she get hired? What was going on, whatever, two and a half years back that that looked like a good option? How did it work before? How did the foundation come about?
[01:50] what were the group of leaders and what were all the dynamics between all of these people. So yeah, I went down quite a rabbit hole there. And that was the sort of the genesis for that information gathering.
[01:55] And I learned a lot. And that information as well I gave to Laura and to the other two authors that were doing their Ethereum books is kind of like, right, there is no canonical, but this is kind of what I've found, which is maybe like the best information that there was at that time. Yeah.

**SPEAKER_02:**
[02:00] well and also it's to your point is that I think generally people have sort of survivorship bias about you know like everything works smooth but innovation is messy you know it's messy and it's like you know there are a million and one different paths that things could have went to and we just want to kind of acknowledge all that like
[02:05] you know like given where the ecosystem is today and even though you know it's amazing to me that so many people know about it that later I spent we all spent the first years trying to get anyone to listen to us talk about blockchain and no one you know everyone just glaze over right so it's it's just kind of nice to take that retrospective view at this point oh

**SPEAKER_00:**
[02:10] went a little bit farther we'll just go with it one of the things that I I know that Vitalik said again it was maybe in Laura Shin's book was like the the founding of ethereum was very atypical um because it was essentially like his here's a white paper out to a bunch of random people uh who may be interested
[02:15] And it's basically like first people that turn up, right, you're the founders. A number of them, they'd not even met each other before, not really a lot of knowledge. And so, yeah, there were lots of interpersonal things that just didn't work at all. It's just like,
[02:20] like founding a company, and I'm sure you guys have this experience yourself, right? You want to start with people that you kind of know and trust a bit because you know that you're going through the fire together. So you better have some stickability with you and common alignment or at least
[02:25] Um, knowing that you've got good communication to go through those bad times. Right. And you, you know, you know that you can work it out. Yeah. And what seemed to happen on the theory was absolutely the polar opposite of that. It's just random bunch of people who were there didn't really know each other, like.

**SPEAKER_04:**
[02:30] make that commitment before you even know what you're even doing right yeah and so that didn't work so great and I think also let me actually I wanted to ask about that I'm also just looking at the list of the ethereum Foundation people which is remarkably long for the type of initiative it was
[02:35] You know, we talk about this because we're a management team and we're trying to get people to focus on particular goals and things our company wants to do and such. Do you think there is any benefits to this level of you could call it disorganization or just, you know,
[02:40] I kind of think if there were a benefit and it wasn't merely just an inefficient and painful process that Ethereum succeeded in spite of, it embodied the ethos and it let people, like Vitalik put the idea out there and then people fought for its destiny. Like Ethereum existed and then they wanted to be part of taking it to, and he saw the clients and all that too. Sorry, Jim, go ahead.

**SPEAKER_02:**
[02:45] I was going to say it kind of worked like a blockchain works, in fact. Yeah. Lots of random people coming together with some underlying principle to organize things, and then they fight it out. But what's that law that organization technology reflects the organization? Yeah, something like that. Like, yes. Sorry. Yeah, I mean, I guess in general, yes. You know, having that like frothing emergent

**SPEAKER_00:**
[02:50] like stuff is is good I think where it was really screwed though was to do with money and and you know the ICO funding right that it's basically like okay here we're doing the thing and here the money is all actually in this organizational group and the people in that group are being funded you know are in this privileged position um it's something which
[02:55] Brian Bellendorf said to me in later years was it's sort of like the original sin of ethereum is if you want to have that kind of collaboration so you know whatever stuff like the EA and hyperledger or even just you know the rather looser protocol development around ethereum you don't want to pay one team and not the others because that just screws that battlefield so um
[03:00] You have this situation, for example, where, um, you know, you've got the C plus plus client and you've got a gap. Um, you, you know, you did have a Python client as well. So you have that good triangulation, but it was essentially like the, the, the funded ones were, were C plus plus and go. And then they have the, the money crisis of, of, of like, oh my God, is this thing even gonna happen? Right. We got cut scope. C plus plus is gone. Gab ends up going out of the way. And then you have parity.
[03:05] having one of the major clients, but without funding. So it's like, oh, Geth, that's the favored child, right? It's not like the official client, but it is the official client. So all that sort of separation of implementation versus specification and that free market around that was really skewed because the money was with Geth.
[03:10] Gary Hedges- And get we're in the foundation and they've got you know the talents kind of blessing and everything, so I think that's where things were great. Gary Hedges- Because you did have the diversity, but it wasn't fair diversity, and I think if you look at what's happening now on.
[03:15] the consensus clients for, I was gonna say Ethereum two, it's not called Ethereum two anymore, but you know, the separation that you have with those execution clients and consensus clients, none of those consensus clients are made by the foundation. The foundation doesn't have client teams. They do funding, like they got the grants, and I think all of those teams are gonna be grant recipients. So that's kind of centralization in a way,
[03:20] But it is an even playing field in terms of the development, right? Because you've got an evenness of funding and that wasn't the case, you know, originally for Ethereum. And I think that made a lot of bitterness as well, because it's like, well, why have you guys got the money? Like, we're making another one as well. Or, you know, other parts of the ecosystem. Like, there wasn't a grants program for a number of years. Between about 2015 and 2018, there wasn't even a grants program.

**SPEAKER_04:**
[03:25] know you've got the foundation sitting on hundreds of millions of dollars and teams couldn't even get funded for doing anything so uh so yeah i think the diversity is good but the money was bad interesting yeah i i think all right okay that's a it's a good strong point so if you compare to like a bitcoin which i know less about the history of the development of bitcoin but it was kind of similar there was less of a
[03:30] there was no pre-mine and no token pre-sale. And so the people who were in it were in it for general interest and it was really sincerely an even playing field. And I would argue, you know,
[03:35] In some ways, Ethereum has made bigger strides than Bitcoin, especially since, you know, let's say 2015, some of the value prop of Bitcoin is that it never changes. And that's kind of part of why it holds its value in some way. But it's, I think, you know, been stifled a little bit for that reason. I think it's pretty hard probably to make step function positive changes in a fully decentralized manner.

**SPEAKER_00:**
[03:40] And I mean, another major difference there talking about clients is it was a very deliberate decision, right, on Ethereum to separate the specification from the clients. And there were multiple clients from day one. I see if I can find my Twitter thread. I was finding these the other day. I was finding the first commits for PyEthereum, PyEthApp, or PyEthereum as it was, CPP Ethereum and GoEthereum.
[03:45] And they were all, um, I think they were all November or December. I think they were all 2013, not even 2014 for those three. Yeah. Um, and then Ethereum J looked like it started in about April, I think. But yeah, Jim, Karen, you guys started Ethereum H in 2014. Yeah, we were much later. We were, um, when did we get deployed? Quarter 2014. Yeah. That sounds about right.

**SPEAKER_04:**
[03:50] And I had worked on the theory just in the summer. So starting kind of maybe June, 2014, I got to know the project pretty well. And then I had gone back to Berkeley. I was in New York for the summer and met Jim September, October, something like that. And then we started work more or less right away, more Jim than me. But, um, so yeah, so there was a big time delay on, on our side.
[03:55] And yeah, I think, okay, yeah, Bob, it's an interesting point, right? I think probably they could have, you know,
[04:00] There was some some real mismanagement at different times, both with the running out of funds, not doing any hedging. And then later, I guess I agree that it could have just been more fair and open feeling, and that would have alienated fewer people. And it could have even just been bigger than it is today. Obviously, we're talking about a smashing success here, but it's sort of.
[04:05] the idea and the community was so powerful that it, you know, there's definitely succeeded in spite of aspect. I think there was value still in this, like, throw it out there, get people to fight over it.

**SPEAKER_00:**
[04:10] But it probably overcorrected and lots of these people also just went and started their own thing. I mean, the other thing is right at the start there, it's like, well, the people that are doing it, that was the whole world, right? That was everything, right? I mean, all of that early work on the clients actually was before the foundation even existed. That was actually unfunded. Yeah.
[04:15] because I'm looking at the dates, so the white paper came out in November 2013. PyAetherium was started on November the 19th, 2013.
[04:20] Gav actually was in contact with Vitalik on that same day. CPP Ethereum started four days later, 23rd of December. Obviously some over Christmas hacking on these things going on. And then GoEthereum was December the 26th. So just three further days. The foundation got formed, I think, in May.
[04:25] April or May 2014, but the crown sale didn't conclude until September 2014. So you'd actually got about nine months worth of development on all of these three clients that was actually unfunded. So I think that unfairness kind of came in a little bit later. I think for that phase, it was like nobody got funded. Oh, sorry.
[04:30] Nobody got funded, though there was the retrospective payback, right? When the Crown sale had gone through, you had money for early contributors. I think that was nearly 10% for like 100, 120 people. Some people made out like absolute bandits for those early months.
[04:35] But then, yeah, following that, there was hiring of actual staff onto those teams. And that, I think, is when it became kind of uneven because you already had a theory in J for a number of months there, and that never got funded. And then you guys starting whenever you were starting.
[04:40] so yeah it kind of became uneven I think at that point and and the probably the worst of it of all was for parity you know when when that team spun out and you basically did have a major you know rapidly load-bearing client um and it was just you know unfunded especially in with Gav who was you know

**SPEAKER_04:**
[04:45] have been the CTO and wrote the other paper and had the first working client and all of the value he delivered. And then it's like, right, sorry, you're out and you're not getting any money. So my memory around the C++ client was that there were funds to do a security audit for
[04:50] Two clients, but one at a time. And it was tight, right? And so they did go Ethereum first. And I think they did actually do the security audit on CPP Ethereum, but I'm not quite sure. I'm not sure they did. Maybe there'd been an intention to do that, but then the money ran out before it happened. I mean, my understanding in terms of uptake as well is CPP Ethereum

**SPEAKER_00:**
[04:55] go ethereum just like caught up and overtook it like really fast uh so when they were making those decisions on cutting funding which would have been mid 2015 it's like hey gabby you're the cto but it's your code base that's got a copy and then that's what happened and

**SPEAKER_01:**
[05:00] I mean, I was, I was sort of building, uh, the various clients quite a bit, cuz I was trying to integrate with them at the time. And my memory was that the C plus plus client had all the newest stuff in it first. So if I wanted to see something first, I would go there, but the go client was more stable.
[05:05] Like because I think because they were putting so much stuff into the C++ client, it was often an unstable situation. And so I would typically kind of go to C++ first to see the new stuff. But if it wasn't building that day, I would run over to go and try it out. Yeah, I mean, and that would make complete sense because the other thing to know with the C++ client is that that was where the test suites were done.

**SPEAKER_00:**
[05:10] you know like all of the all the tests were generated out of that code base so as you say all of the protocol changes or whatever would happen there first then you do the test generation through that and then those were the tests for for uh for other clients so even when cpp ethereum as a client like died
[05:15] it didn't die within that testing suite for years it's like right even though nobody's actually like running this or using it on mainnet or anything you know we've got to keep we've got to keep maintaining that one because that's where the tests are coming from
[05:20] um so yeah that that front line was really like leading across solci the tests and cpp ethereum you know all of those actually were bundled together into a single workspace as well with all of the gui apps like with mix and aleph zero well if one out of five
[05:25] It took 24 hours to build the bloody thing. But that will be because it was all around gap, right? You know, gap was leading all of that, you know, he was, he was building that client, he was writing the yellow paper, he was
[05:30] working there with Christian and Christoph on that specification and testing stuff like that. All of that was there. And then on Jeff's side, just doing Geth, it wasn't a broader thing. And that Geth team were working closer with Mist, with Avsaron Mist.
[05:35] Like for a good while, I don't think CPP Ethereum even worked with Mist. You know, it's like all these groups not really talking to each other. But yeah, that would make sense. Like a lot of it was GAV-led.

**SPEAKER_02:**
[05:40] And wait, Sol-C, the Solidity compiler, that was part of that C++ group too? Yeah. That makes sense because it's written in C++. Yeah. It was all under Web3 umbrella. Okay.

**SPEAKER_00:**
[05:45] I remember Web3 Umbrella. I remember Web3 Umbrella, yes. So yeah, Web3 Umbrella was a Git repo with sub repos for, you know, it was called F, the executable. So you had F and again, but yeah, you had F, you had Sol C.
[05:50] You had Mix, which was the original IDE. Yes. Cute client. You had Aleph0, which was the GUI miner. Yeah. So it's like, right here, here's a good press the mine button. And then you had Aleph1, which was sort of, I guess it was like,
[05:55] kind of like a GUI client runner thing. I can't remember the exact scope, but, but it was sort of like, right, you're running a node, but you kind of got a GUI on it. And I can't remember what it had, but you know, whatever logs going by and I guess you could like fiddle with settings or whatever. Um, but yeah, all of that was in web three umbrella. Um,
[06:00] that's a lot yeah and all of the depend they were all really test and the tests as well right right but then they were all really codependent i mean when i started one of the first things i did was like what are the dependencies on all of these things like what is all of this stuff because you have like libraries with it as well it's like lib ethereum lib web bay web3 base
[06:05] Yeah. Dev P2P, live P2P. There was documentation all over the place. I mean, I think what had happened there that Gab was sort of trying to do, but it never came to fruition and then he left, was it's like, right, let's try and make this modular, right? We're going to try and do a modular thing and pull apart the networking and the database and this, that and the other.
[06:10] but it was it was pulled apart into separate repos before there were actually stable interfaces between any of these so you had to use the latest stuff of anything anyway like you couldn't mix and match because there was no versioning there was no interplace discipline on any of it um you had to use all the latest ones together but then it was all split into these separate repos so it's like right you're making a change on one of them and then whatever updating the sub modules and like
[06:15] like that wasn't atomic it was it was just a big old mess um so yeah one of the first things I did was like you know work out info infer a dependency diagram um map a path to pulling it all back into a into a monolithic workspace um doing like automated builds that we somehow didn't have um and specifically decoupling
[06:20] So for Soulsea, for example, because it was tied in with this
[06:25] our build it was like compiling chromium from source twice compiling qt all of this stuff so just to get you know and there weren't binaries available for solci either like you had to build all of this stuff yourself to be able to like compile you know a smart contract to do anything you have to do all of that so i remember you know after all that decomposition
[06:30] I, you know, I got it. So you could just do solstice. And you know, that was a quick build. And then I did like homebrew. And it's like, so you could do like brew installs, salsa, and it did it in like five seconds. And everyone's like, Oh, my God, it's amazing. But yeah, it was. Yeah, it was a bit of a mess.

**SPEAKER_02:**
[06:35] I I do remember waiting like you know many times trying to build things coming back looking at it saying like this can't be like my machine's got to be broken because like it can't be this long it can't be like eight hours like nothing I could imagine would take more than eight hours to do you know but you're right you know talking about that you know creative brew of lots of different people and uncoordinated and everything

**SPEAKER_00:**
[06:40] one of my first observations on joining the the foundation is these people seem allergic to professionalism because that's seen as you know in an organized way well you're one of the baddies you know you're the status quo you're trying to subvert it and take it over you know things as simple as like like you know have we got like technical leads that actually lead
[06:45] know have we got any project management have we got any it have we got anything and it's like no it's just like a jumble of people doing stuff um and it's like how on earth can you develop software in such a chaotic environment um but that was kind of the vibe as well that was seen as a good thing um you know because it's because that's a defensive cultural thing right you know we don't

**SPEAKER_04:**
[06:50] We don't want this to be a Silicon Valley thing. I just have a comment. It's interesting, and maybe I commented on this in one of the other videos. One of these rare big software projects that did not very much come from the United States, it's Canada.
[06:55] it's different parts of Europe you know and one of those confusing things about to your point about who got paid for the clients on the foundation I think like I remember there being a deal struck with zug the the you know the the Canton basically around it they were like there's tax stuff and all that sort of thing but they also sort of intended to hire and operate locally people would either move there or they'd hire
[07:00] eth zurich grads or whatever um i don't know the details specifically but i think that didn't quite end up happening that way in sort of as a surprise and i saw some of this firsthand at the meeting in which um you know amir and charles were were you know sent on their way um the the client team set up in their own countries
[07:05] And that was a bit of a script flip. Gavin wanted to be in Berlin, because I guess the devs were good and expensive, and to be living there. Inexpensive, excuse me.
[07:10] Yeah, I think it's just, you know, you would, running my own business, you would never make such a decision in such a flip manner where, like, overnight, we're like, oh, we're doing a different country, you know. But that was kind of a regular occurrence to some extent. Major things changing, you know, as part of how the foundation plus sort of operated that I saw. And again, it didn't seem to hurt, you know, quite as much as you might expect.
[07:15] but yeah but I think you know you you had to have you were lucky in how people works how excited people were about the project that survived all of this um and again from our side you know we're sitting in the Bay Area at that time and we're like well why do they keep doing all of these things like they're trying to build a thousand things and it's hard to build one thing um yeah I mean so there were separate legal entities for those as well right so you have F dev AG

**SPEAKER_00:**
[07:20] in in in Berlin and then you know there was then there was an Amsterdam thing uh for for the guest team you had the London stuff as well which was mainly communications sort of stuff um you know with with Stefan and George Hallam uh Ian Meikle and one other person who I forget um
[07:25] But you sort of talk about these people working for the Ethereum Foundation, but it was always woolier than that. So yeah, you did have the shtipum in Zoog, but most people, even if they're working full-time, they weren't actually working for that. So when I had my contract, it was with the for-profit FDev,
[07:30] in Berlin, that was who I was actually working for. And then they were funded by the foundation. And FDev in general, that was another big split that there was, right, was you got the foundation, but then you had FDev that was like the kind of umbrella group for that, that Gav was leading essentially. So I think the Amsterdam thing rolled into Berlin. I think that was all sort of FDev side.
[07:35] And that in itself was a huge item of conflict, I know. Again, in Laura's book, I think Joe was talking about that, right? Was that Gav kind of wanted a big chunk of money. It's like, right, the funds are there from the Crown sale now, so give them all to us, right? And it's like, I don't know that we want to give you all the funds.
[07:40] as you go but uh that you know that was typical of that period is just a mess of complexity and interpersonal things and organizational complexity and with that with that um Swiss people thing so my understanding on that was that was like a a main motivation for like getting renting that spaceship building right
[07:45] was the intention was that there were going to be a load of people there but like maybe it was I think tests testing was one of the ones I heard was maybe a goal there is like right we're going to get a load of Swiss people to test things and there was also like Mihaly with his Holon ideas Holon of these co-working spacey things around the world

**SPEAKER_02:**
[07:50] And when and also to make it a little bit more earlier, like, you know, same time, like, very shortly, consensus emerged on that, too. And they were doing a bunch of work, you know, we were working, you know, we were technically working under consensus for, you know, the first little parts of it, too. And all of that was like, in the mix, you know, everywhere.
[07:55] I want to jump ahead a bit because we have you as an ETC expert. And in our last one, we had a lot of questions around what we remembered from SlotKit and the DAO hack. So maybe you could walk us through that and how ETC emerged out of that. That part was a little bit vague to us because we didn't follow much on how those pieces all came together. Yeah.

**SPEAKER_00:**
[08:00] Um, one of the groups or companies that came out of this kind of like shrinking of the foundation was that on that C++ team that got most of the cuts, a good chunk of those people went to, just went straight to parity, uh, and just like carried on with that new client, but Christoph Jentz, who had
[08:05] testing effort. We were just talking about those same tests. He and Stephan Toile, who had been communications leader, that sort of thing, community stuff, and Lefteris, who'd also been on C++ team, those three went off and formed a company called Slockit. So Slockit being smart locks, just the idea that you
[08:10] You know, whatever, if you're doing an Airbnb or something that you can, you know, that you could have a smart lock and that you could go and do your contract with someone for, for the rental. And then that could be, you know, enabling something