**[00:00] SPEAKER_02:** okay recording is in pro uh is in progress it says so hello everybody um today delighted uh to have uh christoph uh yance with us uh we did attempt to record this uh christopher night two weeks ago but i forgot to press the record button so we spoke for an hour or so and then it was not recorded so this is uh round two so hello christoph how are you

**[00:18] SPEAKER_00:** Hi, Rob. Nice to meet you again. I'm doing good. I hope you too. Thanks for the invitation.

**[00:24] SPEAKER_02:** Fantastic. Yeah. So, so Christoph and I, you know, our paths crossed for the first time way back. back in 2015 when I was trying to do C++ Ethereum on my smartwatch. And this was around the time that Christoph was still at the Ethereum Foundation. And then I think I crossed paths across a number of times since, and Kieran's too. Indeed. So, Christoph, What were you doing with your life before you found Ethereum and joined this crazy journey?

**[00:54] SPEAKER_00:** So the journey started in 2013. I was doing my PhD in theoretical physics, actually about self-organizing systems. So like biology, six months in mathematical biology and other things. So I was studying systems which have local rules and global behavior. And I came across Bitcoin, which is just a small set of local rules and a global behavior as a currency. But the reason I came... was I was looking for cheap GPUs, like graphic cards. And the Bitcoin miners were selling their GPU mining rigs to get some FPGAs and later ASICs. And so that's how I got into what's Bitcoin mining. And so I bought my first Bitcoin, got into this bubble, did read everything i could about it and then i came across the white paper from vitalik early 2014 something like january february and some bitcoin forum somewhere and i was already totally in love with the idea of bitcoin being a decentralized currency and all the characteristics and features of it. And this white paper, if you read it again, it's almost a prophecy. Except of NFTs, everything's in there, from DAOs, from ENS, like domain names, systems and all of that. So for me, it opened up this option of building applications with the same characteristics as Bitcoin. But just for the currency, but everything else. And so then I started reading everything about it. And in 2014, in summer, I read that the crowdsale was in 2014, right? So around the time the crowdsale happened, I watched a video from Gavin Wood. He was somewhere in the Scandinivix, some conference there. um the nordics and he talked about ethereum i loved it and he said you want to open up an office in berlin uh looking for c plus plus developers i was a c plus plus developer so in trajectory physics it's 90 software development so i said well i want to do this so i took my parental leave time plus some vacation time from and passed my phd for like three or six months and said, I will return after I'm done. I thought this was just a short project because they raised money, maybe six, maybe 12 months, 18 months or so, then it's over. When I started, I thought about maybe three to six months, and then I go back to my PhD. So I worked there with Ethereum, with Kevin Wood, it was a great time, and then just decided to stay. It was so exciting.

**[03:49] SPEAKER_02:** So you never got to be a doctor? No, I'm not a doctor.

**[03:56] SPEAKER_00:** I did not finish my PhD, although I only had six months left, which was kind of a pity. I worked for three years on that. But I also had at the time, I think four or five kids. I needed some money. I didn't get much money as a PhD student. So I did software development as a side hustle, basically. And so when I got this project, I said, well, let's do this for two or three months as a parent leave time, and then I can return. And then I decided to really interrupt my PhD is that I will maybe return one year later because I thought the foundation would eventually run out of money because they're not making any profits. It just raised donations. Then it was spent them. That's over. Then I can continue my PhD. That was originally a plan. Just came different.

**[04:38] SPEAKER_03:** I mean, I guess it's never too late, right?

**[04:42] SPEAKER_00:** I actually sometimes think about if I should return. It's just so much to learn again. I'm right now doing tokenize it. I'm basically working on tokenizing German companies. It works very well. And so currently I'm not planning on getting back anytime soon.

**[04:58] SPEAKER_02:** No, because I mean, famously you had Dr. Gavin Wood and Dr. Christian Reitweissner as well. And I think there were a couple of other PhDs as well.

**[05:06] SPEAKER_01:** There was definitely. I also dropped out of mine. I was actually in mathematical physics too. Interesting. Similar background.

**[05:13] SPEAKER_00:** It's actually the same. Like theoretical physics, it's the mathematical part of physics. I enjoyed it very much. I did thermodynamics and statistics, mostly software development. It was really fun.

**[05:24] SPEAKER_01:** Well, by the way, Jim is trying to join. I don't know if there's anything that needs happening. He gets some browser issues.

**[05:32] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. Yeah. Well, he'll pop up and we can add him or if he's, then nevermind. So, so, so Christoph, in terms of, um, you know, getting hired into F dev and I'm sorry if I just missed it. So how,

**[05:47] SPEAKER_00:** did that happen did you you meet gav at a meetup did you say yes i actually i listened only to his talk it was a online thing and i actually just wrote him an email said look i would love to join ethereum love what you're doing and he invited me to meet me in kreuzberg berlin So which again is about two hours drive from here. So I went up there, met him. I remember the first conversation he was talking about all the stuff they were going to build and said, well, what what can you do? And I just asked him, what's like the most complicated stuff you have right now? That give me a complicated task. I somehow can figure it out. So he talked about the Ethereum rich machine, which did some testing. Hi, Jim. So I just picked working on testing the Ethereum virtual machine or writing tests for it. Back at the time, I actually had no real idea what he was talking about. Meaning, of course, I did understand on the white paper level, I did understand what Ethereum was about. But Gavin had this skill of writing the yellow paper, which is still incredible work. It's such a great specification, different from Bitcoin, really having a specification. So multiple clients could be built. And in there, he defined the Ethereum virtual machine. And I think I read the paper six or seven times. I felt like I was one out of, I don't know, 10 or 20 people in the world at the time who really understood the yellow paper. I did corrections to it. I have some pull requests actually in the yellow paper GitHub repo, added missing definitions and stuff like that. And then what I mostly did was writing tests according to the specification, which then were with the help of the C++ client, because this was his team. So I was working also on the C++ code base. And so Geth, PyEthereum, also the JavaScript version, and what else did we have? Like Haskell client and others. I'm basically using my tests to see if they are implemented in the image machine, also the state transitions and block creation correctly.

**[08:12] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, yeah. So I mean, just to have some timeline for the viewers. So Vitalik wrote the white paper in November 2013. Various other people sort of joined in on the efforts in December, including Gav and Jeff, who started the C++ and Go clients, respectively, at the very end. Oh, my goodness. at the very end of December, kind of Christmas projects for them both. January 2014, he had sort of like the public announcement of Ethereum at the Bitcoin Miami conference. It was as early as April 2014 that Gav wrote the yellow paper, which is, you know, as you were saying, the sort of formal specification You had the crowd sale between July and September 2014. So then, yeah, you were coming in right after that. So you had a wave of arrivals in September and October of that year, essentially, because the crowd sale had happened. There was some money to actually hire people. um and then talking about you know where you where you met there uh initially that group so fdev were and is a company coordinating the development of of ethereum stuff so it's a subsidiary of the ethereum foundation um were working initially in a co-working space but then got an offer and it was between august and november of that year that the office was getting like you know done up and tidied and then in november you had devcon zero um you know the first conference uh you know an internal one where a lot of the people, that was their first sort of face-to-face meetings. How was DevCon Zero? How was that? What was that like?

**[12:05] SPEAKER_00:** It was like a company retreat. So it was not a public conference. Even though there were some outsiders who felt like part of the community, maybe also pushed some code. I remember, I was in his name again, wrote the book also about Ethereum, did Lexus. From IBM.

**[12:23] SPEAKER_03:** Oh, Henning.

**[12:25] SPEAKER_00:** I think Henning. Yeah, I think he was also there, just as an example of some people who were like, reading about Ethereum, interested in joining. Of course, Joseph Rubin.

**[12:34] SPEAKER_02:** Roman as well, right? Roman.

**[12:36] SPEAKER_00:** Roman was there.

**[12:37] SPEAKER_02:** Roman Adelaide with the Java clients.

**[12:39] SPEAKER_00:** But it was mostly developers. But also, I think Stefan Toal was already there. So they had already the London team. So it was like an internal Ethereum meeting. Kind of a meetup almost. I think three days or so. I don't know exactly. Five days even. So it was a full week. I was there for the full week, as far as I can remember. I did a presentation about testing, how the test suite is very important. Yes, we had Remix projects, Solidity project, I think, mostly started at the time. Gavin used this for explaining his vision of Ethereum as a platform for decentralized application, so building Swarm. I don't know if Swarm and RISCO was already launched there, but at least the generic idea, the MIS browser, So all those ideas are really sketched out there, like the technical roadmap, what we are going to build. Because we started just, of course, with the basic clients, like implementing the protocol, but he took it like, kind of, what are we going to do in the next 12 months? Building the MIS browser, like we mix all of those tools to have a platform for these and those applications. I remember one slide, which I think I posted on Twitter a while ago, where you have those three circles, one circle is at one node, and you would see like they are connecting on the blockchain, using Swarm for the data, Whisper for the messages, like this whole picture was painted there. And there are people attending, I think around 50 people, plus, minus 10, don't know the exact number, where most of the developers talking about code, coding there. Joseph, I remember him being there saying, well, all of you, you will create your own companies, becoming millionaires. I remember Joseph talking about that. And I think mostly he was right. So most of those people in the room in one way or another, co-founded, founded or early part of companies building on top of Ethereum in the years to come.

**[15:37] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. Yeah. Let me see if I can do a little a little screen share. No, no, I can't work at home. Not not to worry.

**[15:46] SPEAKER_01:** But but yeah, this is present button.

**[15:49] SPEAKER_02:** Does that not work? Yeah, I don't see that. Is that on the right-hand side somewhere or at the bottom?

**[15:53] SPEAKER_01:** Maybe you have a different... For me, I appear on the top right and below. And to the right of me below, there's a present button with like a plus sign.

**[16:02] SPEAKER_02:** Oh, never mind, never mind. I was just going to show the iconic photo of people at DevCon Zero, right? You know, that's this big group shot with nearly everyone who was out there. You know, so that's a classic photo. Ethereum photo. So I was looking, sorry, there's like 11 of the videos that are still around from DEVCON0. I think there are about 20 sessions. I'm still trying to dig out the others. Some of them, including yours, I have not managed to find yet.

**[16:35] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it was only about the test suite, how it built it, how people would use it. It was rather technical. There was not much of a vision in there.

**[16:42] SPEAKER_03:** Well, Lefteris presented on Emacs, so you're not the most boring talk.

**[16:47] SPEAKER_00:** Again, it was just some nerds starting. Also, for most of them, it was the first time we actually met. And of course, the C++ team, they didn't know each other because they're working in the co-working space. Lev Teres and others were there. But then, let's say, I think it was the first time I actually met Vitalik. um because he came there then of course jeffrey and his team stefan's team joseph lubin so it was for me it was the first time to meet all of them and having talks and since we really had time five days a small group of people we actually do have time to eat together to talk so it was not not so crowded maybe as defcon is today uh very intimate it was good yeah i mean far from it

**[17:35] SPEAKER_01:** One thing I can't quite remember. So there was a time there was an Ethereum slack that was kind of open to the public. You know, there were a lot of people. The sort of Ethereum affiliation status was fairly vague at that point. And I remember we were using Skype a lot in those days, just the team. And Vitalik liked to Skype. And then at some point, I sort of lost the thread of like, where the core, like I can't remember where the core development discussions were happening. And maybe I'll ask Jim to comment also, just like those tests, we kept like getting them. And I think I'm thinking of some a little bit earlier on and we'd build them and Jim was mostly working on them and would update on the like passing percentage, which would always be between like 93 and 98%. And then something would change, you know? But yeah, like where did the discussion, because yeah, between like sale and DevCon zero, I think it kind of got a little bit, like moved around where the dev discussion was.

**[18:27] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it was mostly Skype. We also had Skype channels for almost everything, like the C++ team and so on. Then in a short time, there was a note taker, which had a name also with E something. Etherpad? Yeah, Etherpad, something like this, right? There were some notes being written there, but the communication was really, I would say 99% Skype for me. Later on, we used a tool called, Based on GitHub, what was the name of it?

**[18:54] SPEAKER_02:** Gitter. It was called Gitter.

**[18:56] SPEAKER_00:** Gitter came later. This was like the replacement for Skype, but I didn't use it too much. This was actually during the time when I was actually leaving. But it was done, used also by C++ team. There you had a channel per GitHub repo. This was during the time that GitHub was completely reorganized because at the beginning it was like one big repo with everything. Then we had those sub-modules, it was so messy. And then during this process, we got Gitter. But yeah, for me, it was mostly Skype.

**[19:23] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, and then annoyingly, that kind of means a lot of these early discussions are kind of like a bit lost because nobody is using Skype. And Skype is getting like deleted. This is happening in February of next year.

**[19:34] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, I thought it happened already.

**[19:36] SPEAKER_02:** So you can still request a download, and I did, and then I haven't heard anything back and want to do that to see if I can get some of those. So everybody apply to download your Skype data. I remember with Gitter, there was a discussion about this that I was involved with at the EF later, which was saying the problem with Skype is it wasn't discoverable. You had to request to be added, but you had to know what was there to be able to do that request. So it was a bit of a chicken and egg situation. Whereas Gitter, it was like a one-to-one with the repositories. So if you're using a repo, there you go. There's a one-to-one channel with that. And it was discoverable and archived. But then Slack, I think, was even earlier. Oh, and there was the forum as well, right? It was an Ethereum forum too.

**[20:18] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it was important. And then Slack, I think I got introduced to Slack by Stéphane Toual when he created a community for the DAO. When he looked for a new communication tool, he went with Slack. And at that time, it was not like today, like a business tool for the company. It was really communities. Like we had 5,000 people in our Slack, which is not how it's used today.

**[20:38] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, yeah. So welcome, Jim. Your technical problem.

**[20:41] SPEAKER_04:** Hi, sorry. I had some technical problems for a while there. But I don't know. I'm just listening to you guys. What happened that brought the whole world to Zoom suddenly?

**[20:51] SPEAKER_01:** It was in waves. On my side. I don't know.

**[20:54] SPEAKER_04:** I just woke up one day and everything was Zoomed from then on.

**[20:57] SPEAKER_01:** Species, like a statistical phase transition. You know, I think it was two phases, right? I would always get invited to corporate, let's say 2017 to 2019 when I was doing primarily BD, I found that I would get invited to any of 10 video conferencing tools. And, like, you know, what was the Cisco one? WebEx. That was horrible. I would get that a lot. Google meetings didn't feel sufficiently corporate or something, even though it was okay. And Zoom had the best quality for a while. And I found that everyone picked Zoom at the same time, like mid-2018, let's say.

**[21:35] SPEAKER_02:** I think it was just quality to me. Yeah. I mean, Microsoft really fumbled, right? Skype had got such a lead for so long. But Zoom just seemed more reliable, whatever weird little proprietary magic they had going on.

**[21:43] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah.

**[21:44] SPEAKER_04:** I guess I was under the impression that Zoom was for businesses.

**[21:47] SPEAKER_01:** I think that's, well, that is true. But it was just that still, I mean, this has gotten way better in the last 10 years, but still nothing really works for reliable video over the internet. It's just much better than what... existed but there was a free version always and it would just like time you out so like they had a fairly viral acquisition loop where like i was just going to say in the pandemic uh once when people were locked down it became a consumer tool where people would have like yard large yoga classes or you know sermons or whatever with like 500 people on a zoom and then everyone got called yeah

**[22:18] SPEAKER_04:** I remember it well, all of a sudden, like my, my parents were like calling me up and they were like, we found this awesome new tool. You probably never heard of it. It's called Zoom.

**[22:26] SPEAKER_03:** But yeah, there were like 10.

**[22:28] SPEAKER_02:** Let's move on from sharing about video platforms. So I look back. So Jim's first commits on the Haskell client were mid-September 2014. So, you know, a couple of months ahead of DevCon 0 that you'd had the yellow paper for five months at that time. And I did find on our Slack, um you know a bit of a thread where where things i think from you christoph were were being discussed by jim i don't know did you guys interact directly at all on on testing jim christoph not directly not as far as i can remember i mean maybe there was some messages i mean it's about it has been a while ago

**[23:08] SPEAKER_04:** I could be wrong. I may have met you briefly in London when we had that conference, but it would have been like, uh, like hi, you know, quick, quick, quick greetings at a part, you know, an after party or something.

**[23:19] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, 10 years ago, lots of people, sure. We were testing GitHub repo, and we had all the major clients using it. And I was interacting, mostly asking, responding questions. I mean, of course, the C++ time, I was super close to. I used the C++ time also to pre-fill the tests. So this was... per default right, except we found there was a test failing, but actually C++ was wrong. So sometimes this happened. The test was not really failing, just C++ was wrong. But in the maturity of cases, C++ was right. So we were just having those conversations, and we found tons of issues. We did, not just in the beginning, I wrote those tests using actually bytecode, the very first test. Then I went to a low-level Lisp-like language. This was LLL. This was the... precursor to Solidity by Gavin. And then in the end, actually, I had automated like fast testing where I wrote software that would create thousands of tests that we had some AWS, like over 100 cores of machines constantly creating tests. We had always some failing on some versions of Geth or other clients. So this was mostly what I did during one and a half years.

**[24:35] SPEAKER_02:** right right so so yeah i mean i guess for the for the viewers something that ethereum chose to do differently from bitcoin was to have this specification separate from the client software right so you know when bitcoin started uh it was the code that happened first and the the white paper afterwards but but the white paper wasn't a protocol specification so um you know gav was doing that yellow paper spec in parallel with the C++ client, which was sort of the first one, while you have Vitalik working on the Python client, Jeff working on the Go internally, but then you've got all these other clients as well, right? So the Java one by Roman, I think, started in about April or May. You know, ourselves, Jim and Kieran here with, Uh, with a Haskell client starting in September, you had JavaScript as well.

**[25:30] SPEAKER_00:** So it's more like a library. I don't, don't know if it's really like a syncing client, but they have all the tools so you can in your web app kind of integrates part of, part of it to verify. So it states.

**[25:41] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah. I mean, I think maybe they had a syncing client at some point apart from it, obviously like couldn't actually keep up, but theoretical, um, and, um,

**[25:49] SPEAKER_02:** And yeah, like a little later, there was a Ruby client as well. And yeah, at one point there were eight different clients.

**[25:56] SPEAKER_00:** Right. If you want to, I can tell the story of why we all are using guests today. Yeah, this is not absolutely not a given at the time. Of course, everyone had different opinions, but the C++ client was really the fastest, the most solid one passing all the tests and so on. But Gavin always wanted to add new features. We went to a refactoring and he was a perfectionist, which is not bad for this kind of software. And then the time came for the security audit, because everybody wants to launch Ethereum now. And we said, before we launch it, those clients need to have a proper security audit by an external company. And one of the companies doing this was Deja Vu in Seattle. So I actually went there with a team for the audit. And because Gavin wanted to build some more features, he said, well, let's just guess can go first. Let's first audit the Go client. When they are done, I'm done with the features I wanted to build. And then we're going into the audit for the C++ client. So Geth was audited. They had some issues. They fixed the issues. And now it's fine. And so there was technically no reason why not. Well, actually, we could launch Ethereum now. We have a fully audited client. Testnet is running for a while. No major issues. No fading tests for a long time. So why would we wait for the C++ client to be audited? I mean, they all really had the pressure of money was running out. We need to launch now. And then a decision was made. Let's launch this Geth. They can still use C++. It's just not audited. It's just not audited. Let's say in two months or so, the audit is done, and then they can use C++ even more if they want. But then the big mistake was, in my view, when they made this announcement of you can start now, they recommended using Geth because it was the audited one. So almost everybody won Geth. This was like, we started with almost 100% guess, and then there was just a minor other clients using, only very few did use them. And so after the audit was done, nobody switched for like, sure, but guess is running, I'm synced, like what's the issue, why should I switch? And so we had this 19, 10 or 18, 20 distribution, it just stayed like this. So if Gavin would have been either say, let's just do the audit now and we just have both audited and then start, maybe we would have 50-50. Or even the other way around, if they would have first audited in C++ and Ethereum would have been launched without a guest audit, they would have received a total switch. And then, of course, money was going low in the foundation. They had to reduce the team. And because Geth was the most used one, there were some issues with Gavin. another story, maybe have a talk with him. And so in the end, Ming decided to basically kick out the complete C++ tape. This was then shortly before DEF CON 1. So something like November, October-ish. But yeah, I think the reason for that was also C++ wasn't really that used. Also, there are other reasons as well. But you can see how a tiny thing can have such big consequences down the road, like him doing Polkadot today and all of that. And he was great. I mean, I really, I still think, I think maybe we would have had a mistake and sharding way earlier if Gavin would have stayed. So without him, they moved slower. And of course, the price went up. There were no security relevant things. So changes happened not quickly anymore, but take more time and so on. But I think this was a big loss for Ethereum that Gavin left basically in 2015.

**[28:39] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, it's amazing.

**[28:41] SPEAKER_01:** The client side was the cause. I think it was part of it. The process maybe started with the Red Wedding, which we discussed in some other early days of Ethereum episodes. I remember very clearly in the room, it was like two weeks into my Ethereum tenure at that time, that he was talking about brain drain if it was only going to be a nonprofit foundation and not going to have a commercial arm.

**[28:59] SPEAKER_00:** Yes, there were more issues than that, definitely. Like this was not the deciding part, but it was like those things were adding up. I remember that Gavin had this idea of turning the foundation into a DAO and then having for-profit entity next to it, which would build things and make money. So there were many different commercial ideas at the time. So he then basically started on his own ETH Core. I remember he wanted to have me as part of it, but I decided to do Zlockit at the time. So that's why I did not became a co-founder of ETH Core. Another story, we can go into this if you want. You know what happened after that. But there are many reasons we are part of it. I think also him and Ming didn't really get along too much. There was not really a trust relationship going on. Of course, money running out, different visions of how Ethereum should evolve technically and economically, if you want. All played a role, but I think it was just one part that the C++ client wasn't really used that much. And the reason for that was guest being audited and we launching without an audit for the C++ client.

**[30:12] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. I mean, talking about features, so many things happened, right? Gav had this period of incredible productivity between that December and that April of getting from nothing, just having the white paper, all the way through to having a working client, having the yellow paper. as you mentioned you know there's this this diagram showing how how whisper and ethereum and swarm were intended uh to fit together and i i found some more timing on that was so swarm was envisaged by daniel nagy as far back as 2011. know it was a it was a year an idea he'd been working on for like three years before that i i spotted on the whisper presentation that gavin did that he that that was a pre ethereum idea as well so it was probably only when all of these people came together it was like well you've got this storage idea you've got this blockchain kind of like cpu databasey idea And then if you have messaging, all of these things can fit together. But it's always, it's also, we're going to build our own IDE as well. Browser. Browser, Ms. Browser. I'm sorry?

**[31:07] SPEAKER_00:** Plus the Ms. Browser. the complete thing it's a it's a complete platform for decentralized applications end to end this was the big mission and also this was what attracted me to it i mean having someone having a really proud vision of a new internet if you want that's what he called that three that's where the term comes from because it was not just a little tool it was a complete new internet called web3 from data to messaging to smart contract blockchains to ide to browser And this vision was very, very attractive. This attracted all the talent and the developers because they loved building that.

**[31:42] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah, I mean, it's a very, very expensive vision. And yeah, it was, you know, Gav, Gav, as you say, you know, Web three was him. Prior to that, the language I saw was really about Bitcoin with smart contracts. You know, that was really sort of the genesis of the talent going through That journey of colored coins and master coins and meta protocols and that kind of positioning of Bitcoin is a calculator and Ethereum is a smartphone. But it wasn't that full web three vision, which I think that really came from Gavin.

**[32:10] SPEAKER_00:** You have to attribute this to him. He was having this big vision. This attracted also too many people. It attracted also that even the business people, they could now understand what it actually is. Other than this was just like tech. Let's see. But this is like a broad vision of how business function, how like this new financial world would happen. They could understand this far better. then having this iPhone calculator comparison, this was maybe a nice technical thing.

**[32:35] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. Yeah. But then for it being a very expensive vision, that's that's a lot of work. Sure.

**[32:41] SPEAKER_00:** But I just thought somewhere.

**[32:43] SPEAKER_02:** That's it. So I mean, you know, talking about Gavin, the features. So, yeah, there was a ton of stuff on that on that C++ team. Aleph Aleph zero as well. And Aleph one. So Aleph one being the GUI miner. How would you describe LS0?

**[32:58] SPEAKER_00:** Kind of the first interface to the blockchain in some way, like the first graphical interface to a blockchain client. What could it do? Of course, you could mine, you could deploy a smart contract, you could make it visible somewhat what's happening there. It was not really end-user friendly in any way, but it was just a replacement of what people just do on the command line. Usually command line, when your client has some input, has some output, and it was the first kind of graphical user interface, replacing the command line.

**[33:26] SPEAKER_02:** I guess it's sort of like a combination of Like what you have with the block Explorer now, apart from it, that's, that's like a view only. And this was both a view and a, and a, and a do. Um, yeah. But yeah, those GUI clients.

**[33:39] SPEAKER_00:** But much more influential than the MIST browser. The MIST browser, I think there's a video by Alex van der Sander. It's like a 10-minute video on YouTube. They had this prototype. They're not working yet, but just take it until you make it. The vision of the MIST browser. And this also really made us understand how Ethereum could work for the end user. Having different identities connected to wallets, and you would load those steps. Is it an IPFS hash or... even over swarm one day the app was loading and you could do some finance stuff there this gave us an idea of what ethereum could be it was so you have to think vitalik gave us a rather technical vision and fraud intellectual thing but gavin gave us his pros internet vision alexander alexander gave us this very concrete thing what an end user could do with that in the next six to 12 months maybe it's very important

**[34:29] SPEAKER_02:** Just yesterday, actually. So there was an announcement from Uniswap about them sort of turning on fees and doing various things that are more kind of to do with, you know, the company and the protocol tying together. And I saw a reaction to that saying, you know, well, I'm never going to use this again. You know, you can't like... you know, extract ongoing revenue out of a protocol. And this person then said, it's time for mist too. Totally.

**[34:57] SPEAKER_03:** We need the full vision so that you've got hosted and the apps and you don't need a server and you don't need a company and you can just make this pure, you know, immutable smart contract wrapped in a UI that's all decentralized.

**[35:06] SPEAKER_02:** You think we could have a myth too?

**[35:08] SPEAKER_00:** I would love to see this. I heard people thinking about this before. I don't know if anybody really started the project, but

**[35:14] SPEAKER_01:** should be totally doable today it's not rocket science you know um let me interject we ourselves have made sort of different attempts at this where like you just download the app from the chain itself pretty much um it worked fine and i guess it just wasn't as much a differentiator like it made things a little slower uh uh to to do it this way all the time I also think like one of the people that took the Web3, the world computer vision sort of seriously was like the internet computer people. And I don't know anyone that uses internet computer, but like every once in a while I see tweets about it and I'm like, that sounds great. Yeah, start the app from the chain. You know, it's got some cool like smart contracting language in it.

**[35:48] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah.

**[35:49] SPEAKER_01:** i guess there's just no demand if it like slows the app down even slightly um and i think metamask and then many other wallets were sort of enough still not um the whole thing but but yeah i guess it's like you got to get people to use it if you want it to be maximally cypherpunk too i fully agree and i mean yeah

**[36:04] SPEAKER_00:** The problem with this is you only need it if you really need it. Meaning if Uniswap failed, the interface is not there. It's like a backup. But it's not what you want to use daily. And if you remember, let me give you a DevCon one. When they presented MetaMask, My first thought was, oh, this is totally away from the vision. How can you not run a full node? How dare you to just serve over RPC with Infora? Almost not a scam, but it was not what we intended to build. Today, it's like, this is a decentralized version of it. This is like non-castor, the metamask are the good guys. compared to all the others. See how the view shifted over the years. Then it was absolutely required to run a full node if they missed browser. This is how it's done. And now we have MetaMask plus Infora. And today this is really the version which is viewed as the original non-custodial Ethereum vision. how things are shifting, basically. But yes, you only need those things if things are falling apart. Just as an example, so many people use the Gnosis Safe. Let's say the Gnosis Safe UI is gone. Technically, it shouldn't be a problem to run another one, but I really need to be something on IPFS. I need to be something which can self-host so I can still access my wallet without going to the command line. So for those reasons, you need it. And the mispronouncement was sort of as the fallback for every debt. Like, of course, you can have your application run on a normal.com domain on AWS, fine. But if you could serve the same app in a decentralized fashion as a backup, this would be great because you could still use it if the company gets a Uniswap, the company fails. If someone builds a nice Uniswap UI served by IPFS, directly interacting with the smart contracts.

**[37:52] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, that's fair. Also, Uniswap, I think, is controversial. I know Jim wanted to say something. Controversial because they had the company-level fee skim, and then I think they've turned the on-chain fee on.

**[38:02] SPEAKER_02:** don't know that they've turned the company fee off i haven't read that for detail i believe so because one of the replies was saying okay so how are your like shareholders gonna like that yeah okay fair enough uh well hopefully they hold a bunch of the the uni and uh it will uh you know mark tomorrow they're doing a bunch of burn so that you know it should be to the benefit of all uh stakeholders but yeah just sort of this interesting kind of contrast right between completely immutable force of nature, smart contracts versus more permission, more tied to a company, more sort of like wanting to have fees for maintenance kind of question.

**[38:35] SPEAKER_00:** mean you know it's like treasuries i guess either but this opens up the questions how should the ethereum app be built economically and this is also a question being answered during that time this was being the dow was one approach of it should be fully on chain all the revenue should be on chain it should be no for-profit entity directly attached to it and slocket the company i built after that would be a service provider for them getting paid by them for work being done for the dow but one version I was always skeptical and still am about companies where you have effectively two cap tables, meaning you have a token cap table if you want. Of course, it's a utility token, governance token, and so on. But effectively, it's kind of ownership in the protocol. And then you have a for-profit company with shareholders. And this is always, I think, very dangerous because you don't know where to go into. Where's the value? On the shares of the company or on the token? This was the main reason all those companies had those nonprofit foundations in Switzerland. Rightfully so, because they said you only want to have one cap table like the Ethereum Foundation. There was no shareholders of Ethereum. There was a nonprofit foundation and a token. The token, if you want to have a share in the economic success of the protocol, you would buy Ether. And so later on, there were many other token projects where they had a nonprofit foundation. So no shareholders, no second cap table. And then you would have only the token and all the value would be there. And now with Uniswap, you have this problem of having again, shareholders and tokens. And I think that's dangerous and not a good idea actually.

**[40:12] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. Yeah. Um, so, uh, perhaps let's, let's talk about, uh, DevCon actually just before we get to DevCon one. So the, the launch, right. So obviously a lot of, uh, of testing and coordination and this different series of, of proof of concepts. So, I mean, what, how did you know it was good enough? Like what was that testing flow and collaboration like?

**[40:35] SPEAKER_00:** So there are many indicators, one being the Olympic test that running smoothly for a while, other one where SSL declined having an audit, which worked. And then they were saying, okay, now if Christoph doesn't find any failing tests for like three weeks or four weeks or something, we are ready. And this was the case. And so we said, now we can set a launch date. in the launch itself it's also a bit typically typically Gavin or also Vitalik nobody wanted to push a button like nobody just like start the chain so what was done was there was a script written which has as an input parameter the hash of the Olympic testnet at a certain block height so everybody could using this script plus the software plus C++ or go client of course having plus the hash, which was at that time in the future of the Olympic test, let's start that chain. So there was no, at launch day, we were just viewing it. There was nothing to be done. It was like, everything was, all the information was out there. People were just simultaneously starting the blockchain. And then over the peer-to-peer network, this was actually the more harder stuff. They found themselves on Reddit and others to share IP addresses, like connect to my peer, connect to my peer. and so then they started to come together and of course the longest chain was a valid one so as soon as you found a pier which had their own chain you would say yes this is a longer one you would stop and start mining on top of his chain and so basically the canonical chain emerged from that within i don't know 30 minutes or one hour and then we had the chain running and this was a like a beauty to behold like to just see how this works out as intended completely decentralized nobody did that do anything it's just i was in the z plus plus berlin office in kreuzberg 37a with a nice office, and we just watched it. And we were somewhere mining there with the laptop. And we were all excited as it started. I actually think two or three weeks after, or maybe four, we had the first little hard fork, meaning there was some smart contract doing something that gas and C++ had a different result. It was, for me, almost the middle of the night at 10 PM or 11 PM. So I remember seeing this, looking for one hour or so, finding what's the issue. Then I found it, wrote a test about it. Peter's bus was right. Guess what's wrong. So we gave it to Jeff. They fixed this. I think we said one hour and like after five hours, everything was done. It's a basic call that the miners please update your client. Um, so, and then it was fine. So this was the early days, but it was a successful launch.

**[42:56] SPEAKER_02:** Nevertheless, did the Haskell clients sink at Genesis? I do not know Jim.

**[43:01] SPEAKER_04:** No, we were able to sync at Genesis time for like a year or so we were syncing. But I remember like that week, Karen and I were like more interested in trying to get a minor in place. So that was what that week looked like for us.

**[43:12] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, I was living in an apartment just south of Berkeley campus at this time, and Jim had taken me to Fry's to build a machine a few months prior, like a build machine. It had a good GPU in it.

**[43:21] SPEAKER_04:** Yeah, Fry's is dead now.

**[43:23] SPEAKER_01:** RIP. So I was running a miner there, and we built a couple in Jim's garage. It got very hot in Jim's garage, which was, you know, those things were consuming a fair bit of power. Mine exploded after a few weeks. It was actually just the power supply. So I thought the whole machine was bricked, and Jim said, you know, I think everything but the power supply will be okay. And it was the case that everything but the power supply was okay, but then I stopped mining.

**[43:50] SPEAKER_04:** Um, and I think Jim, we didn't even bother to buy cases at that time.

**[43:54] SPEAKER_01:** Right. Yeah.

**[43:56] SPEAKER_04:** You may have had a case. I had mine just sitting wires out.

**[43:59] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. So unlike, unlike what you have now where leading into a hard fork, you know, you've got all that discussion and specking up front and like applying the code into the clients, but only enabled for a test net and going through that dance and then ready to go. Yeah. I mean, at that point, as you say, it's, it's kind of like done in those clients first and then back later.

**[44:19] SPEAKER_04:** The yellow paper got me to a certain point. Sorry. Yellow paper always got me to a certain point, but it was always behind the other clients. So I would always find out that I was behind because I went in the morning and connected to the test net and I was no longer connecting or I was getting some state mismatch or something. And then I'd have to go and dig through usually the C++ client. I think there was maybe one or two times where I can't remember why. I think there was one or two things that went to geth first, but usually it was C++. And I'd have to go digging through the newest code to find the changes and then bring them in. And then a few weeks later, I'd see it in the yellow paper. So...

**[44:56] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. So unlike, unlike what you have now where leading into a hard fork, you know, you've got all that discussion and specking up front and like applying the code into the clients, but only enabled for a test net and going through that dance and then ready to go. Yeah. I mean, at that point, as you say, it's, it's kind of like done in those clients first and then back later.

**[45:16] SPEAKER_04:** It looked like from where I was standing, it looked like there was a lot of competition between the different clients and the developers there. And I think they sort of like took pride in having the new thing in as fast as possible. And so that sort of led to an environment maybe where there was not as much discussion. It was like, I'm going to throw it in and then I get the bragging rights.

**[45:36] SPEAKER_00:** There was always a fight between guests and C++ team about who's the best. And Gavin was having a big ego. And Jeff was more like, just give me the new spec. I just code it. But yeah, it was more or less this decision by the three of them. I was basically not playing a very major role. I was in the room and then writing a test for it. But they discussed it. After it was cleared, they just did it. But it was pre-launch. After launch, of course, this was different.

**[45:59] SPEAKER_02:** So I'm saying about having Sorry, go on, Jeff.

**[46:03] SPEAKER_04:** Oh, I was just going to say, like, I know, like, a lot of the changes were just, like, some change in the EVM or pricing or something. And so often it was, like, you know, I would, like, freak out in the morning when I wasn't working. But then, like, by 11 o'clock or, you know, a.m., I had found, like, oh, I see, like, such and such opcode just doubled in price or something. So I would just put that in. But the big one was RLPX, which is essentially, like, a big SSL replacement. And that one was like freaking me out for a couple of weeks. I was like digging around trying to find any information about that. Eventually I had to reverse engineer. Maybe that was the one that was in Geth first. I can't remember. But I had to sit there and reverse engineer. I had to run either C++ or Geth and then put lots of logging information in to see what in the world was happening and then print out all the stuff and then find the appropriate crypto libraries to mimic that. What was the background on that and how it went in so quickly?

**[46:52] SPEAKER_00:** like there was nothing in the yellow paper about that at all and when that came in it was just a shock to me just do you know which time this came because i was focusing on the ethereum virtual machine at the time this was more like okay i know gavin i think was gavin doing some optimization he was always thinking about the long term so if something would be 10 more efficient you have to do this right i think um

**[47:23] SPEAKER_01:** So I remember like there was a dev P2P live P2P website that was released about that time. It still might have been after the giant change went in. So I also, we were working together regularly, you know, in the Bay area at this time. And I think. so jim did like 96 of the changeover but we had uh at the time like separate processes one was more like a client and more like a server we merged them later um and yeah it was like so there was a big document one describing like how the DHT for peer discovery would go in, but then you needed like a way to identify the peers maybe. And this system kind of gave them an identity with like a, you know, in an SSL style, like basically there was like a node cert in effect. And then you had to like, there were session keys and you know, this, this, that, and the other, it was, it took a long time to implement that thing.

**[48:09] SPEAKER_02:** um but yeah i think um maybe bob you would know that i think this was someone else wrote this big thing this might have been alex yeah it was a alex did did that um so saying about sort of documentation or whatever there was a wiki right it was an ethereum wiki and a number of things were documented only on the wiki um and i think these these kind of wire protocol pieces were were part of that But yeah, Alex Leverington was the first hire into that Berlin office. And he primarily, I mean, he worked on a few different C++ things. But the main thing he's known for is dev P2P, which was that common underlying P2P protocol. Though you already had lib P2P, which is the transport for IPFS. That already existed at the time. So it was a bit of not invented here going on. um but but yeah he uh he was there for for devcon zero as well and he spoke remember alex i was not too much into the peer-to-peer side of the code base i was more into the evm and solidity small contract side they tell you what there was a bit of funny crossover with the later part of uh of yours was alex leverington uh worked with John Gerrits on a project called Airlock.

**[48:59] SPEAKER_00:** so remember that i saw it later like after we did our presentation and had the slug and stuff going they showed us videos of very earlier than us so yes they were actually time wise they did this before we did but i did not know about it at all and so we did it more or less in parallel then and we just launched a bit quicker like to go to the public with the project it has been from their side was more like a little diet project it looked like a big company or intended to be

**[49:32] SPEAKER_02:** yeah i remember this project yeah so i think that was that was at the hackathon at the bitcoin expo in uh april uh 2014 that that that they uh you know we were there and they did it and then they showed us later on um and yeah, it, it, it was lovely to see that. That's for sure.

**[49:53] SPEAKER_01:** yeah I think good notes just Bob you you were the one who tried to impose a hour to half hour to hour rule or a solid 120 right here the other time maybe with me you know we've reached a you know a good kind of end point I guess so what what happened after blockchains LLC for you then

**[50:08] SPEAKER_00:** So because of time, I keep it short. So yes, we got bought by Jeffy Burns, blockchain LLC at the time. Again, the reason for this being he wanted to build a new city in the desert. He wanted to do all on IoT, all on Ethereum from scratch as a developer dream, building from scratch on a green field on top of Ethereum with our tech. and i felt comfortable the beginning in the end i felt like we need to release stuff and there were some voices of the company which didn't want to release until like a very very big product was done for many reasons that didn't happen i don't want to get into like that too much so after two years i left um blockchains back then it was called inc they made the change in their name And I did for six months, I did really nothing. I forced myself to do nothing, which was great after so much stress for years. And then I started a venture studio called Corpus Ventures, where we tried out many different ideas. We had EM3, which was a decentralized messaging protocol, GasHawk. You can save transaction costs on Ethereum. What else did we have? So we have some domain name stuff, but we didn't release it at the end. But the biggest one was tokenize it. And this was we built something for now German startups. In the end, we want to do it all over Europe. We're just tokenizing their shares and do fundraising. In summary, it's like a Web3-based angel list for Europe. It's the one-sentence description for Americans also to understand. Angel list, it's a great tool for business angel investing. We want to do the same for Europe, for all countries there, and build it on chain. So tokenizing all those shares and enable private as well as public fundraising. So some call it legal ICOs, if you want, but also for private fundraising. Our customers currently... have more than 400 investments from more than 320 business angels and more than 50 companies. Those are traditional German GmbHs raising from super conservative business angels, doing it completely on-chain. They are paying in stablecoins, getting their tokenized shares in their non-custodial wallet. They're all getting a Gnosis Safe wallet from us. using preview for login. So we build it as intended and we get normal people to use it. For me, this is kind of a dream come true because I'm out of, I love the Web3 bubble. I love this community. I love to work inside there. But for me, tokenize is a way to make this technology available where it belongs, like to startups and investors outside of our Web3 bubble. And I'm super, super happy that could keep up those values that they have. Complete platform is non-custodial. They have their safe on Ethereum, holding their tokens, paying stable coins. So I'm very happy to see this. Over the next years, we want to basically roll out this all over Europe and become, yes, the Web3-based angel list for Europe. That's the goal.

**[52:09] SPEAKER_02:** Fantastic. So hope to see you at DEF CON 8.

**[52:14] SPEAKER_00:** Me too. I'm looking forward to it. As of now, I don't intend any change. Stick to Ethereum. I love the community. I continue building and try to get a lot of people using it.

**[52:23] SPEAKER_02:** Have you been to every DevCon?

**[52:26] SPEAKER_00:** Yes. Yes, I said yes. I've been to every DEF CON. The last one was actually the first one that I didn't give a talk. And I also went to every ECC except of one that was COVID. There was some reason I couldn't come. But yes, I'm actually, I intend to continue to come to every DEF CON. It's like you meet the people like Griff Green, Lev Karras, Of course, Vitalik and many others. It's just a sweet spirit there. Nice community. Love seeing how it all grows. Listen to those exciting talks. I mean, for tokenizer, it's not as relevant. It's not like our customers or the tech, of course. We're just doing an ERC-20 token on Ethereum. It's super easy. It's no deep tech. Sometimes I miss doing deep tech, but well, I just enjoy being there, seeing what all happened and remembering those magic days. And it's like only once in a lifetime or two times in a lifetime, you have this... this moment where everything comes together, the right time, the right place, the right people. This certainly, where those one and a half years I worked for Ethereum, are definitely the prime of my career in terms of who I worked with, what we accomplished, the impact we had on the world, and the sweet cyberpunk spirit there and what we did there. It was really great. I always sometimes get emotional thinking about this and meeting those people again at DEF CON.

**[53:29] SPEAKER_02:** Fantastic. Well, thank you for all your contributions to that success.

**[53:34] SPEAKER_00:** Likewise.

**[53:36] SPEAKER_02:** All the best. Okay. Oh, just one more. Where can we find you?

**[53:41] SPEAKER_00:** You can find me usually on Twitter for the Ethereum people, chryench. Of course, I have a complicated name, not many vocals in there, but you find it. Or, of course, on LinkedIn. Actually, for my company, I'm more active on LinkedIn, which I was never before, but that's where we get our clients and tokenize it. Yeah, but usually you can find me on Twitter or follow me there on LinkedIn.

**[54:01] SPEAKER_02:** Excellent. Okay. Thanks so much. Have a great day. Thank you.

**[54:06] SPEAKER_00:** You too. It was great talking to you. Bye.