**[00:00] SPEAKER_00:** Okay. I think we are live.

**[00:03] SPEAKER_01:** Live? Us?

**[00:05] SPEAKER_00:** Let's just give a minute for people to join.

**[00:07] SPEAKER_01:** Alrighty.

**[00:08] SPEAKER_02:** So I looked at the background noise reduction that says are not supported in this browser. I'm using Firefox. Perhaps it has to be Chrome.

**[00:14] SPEAKER_01:** Yes. You you must pick from the two available choices.

**[00:16] SPEAKER_00:** Safari. It'd be great. Yeah. Safari has a huge amount just because of the iPhone.

**[00:20] SPEAKER_01:** Is is Edge is it called Edge still? Yes. Yes. Nobody uses Edge. Nobody. Nobody uses it. I bet you it's a lot. Hold on.

**[00:28] SPEAKER_02:** I I I seem to remember seeing, and I can't remember who was on Edge or Bing or probably both, but the most searched thing was how to install Chrome.

**[00:36] SPEAKER_01:** That's funny. Try though they might wow. Chrome just continues to rise in market share. It's gone from 66% roughly about a year ago to 72% now worldwide. Safari is trending down. Yeah. They're just pretty tiny. Wow. Opera is still around. That's amazing.

**[00:48] SPEAKER_02:** They all use Chromium now. Okay. Fair enough.

**[00:51] SPEAKER_00:** Oddly, son uses Opera. Okay. We are live now in Twitter. Live. Live. Okay. So should we should we wait another minute, or should we just start?

**[00:58] SPEAKER_01:** That's a good question. We could we could ease into the substance of the content. Do we have any minute long non sequiturs? Cold opens.

**[01:06] SPEAKER_00:** Well, maybe we should do our intros because we we We could okay. We we could do the intros. So hi, everyone. Welcome to our week show. If you don't know, we are all part of the Strato Mercado project that is a layer one EVM compatible blockchain focused on bringing DeFi to the masses. Now we the three of us here are all longtime builders and all Ethereum OGs. I'm Victor Wong.

**[01:32] SPEAKER_01:** Vic, I don't know if you can describe yourself as an OG. I think someone else has to describe it. Someone has to bestow that. Exactly.

**[01:39] SPEAKER_00:** Okay. You two are OGs. No. You Can we say it to each other? Yeah. Can we say it to each an OG,

**[01:45] SPEAKER_01:** but but, yeah, we I I said that as a collective circle.

**[01:48] SPEAKER_00:** Right. Exactly. So You can tell Bob. Bob's an OG. Bob can tell me. I can tell you. Yes. So, you know, we've been building since the launch of Ethereum and continue to follow this journey. So you'll get, hopefully, no shilling and a lot of good historical context about what we're gonna talk about today. And today, we are going to talk about the highlights from token $20.49. And is was it more boring or more crazy in terms of the blockchain world? Joining me is Bob Summerwell. Bob, you wanna do a quick intro?

**[02:18] SPEAKER_02:** Hi there. I'm Bob Summerwell. We are all we're not old. We're all very experienced.

**[02:24] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Thank you.

**[02:25] SPEAKER_02:** But, yes, I'm I'm head of ecosystem.

**[02:28] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. And Karen, of course.

**[02:30] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I am also experienced you know, not as long as you can be in the space, but it's starting to feel like it. Right? Like, we've really been around for some time.

**[02:38] SPEAKER_00:** But, yes, I'm I I will bestow the OG title on you, Karen. So Oh, thank could go I mean, I mean, anyone that's been around since before the launch of Ethereum and was part of it, I think, you know, that would be we we can we can claim that title.

**[02:51] SPEAKER_01:** How the time goes?

**[02:53] SPEAKER_00:** So I will say that I was not in Singapore. I kinda played hooky with current approval. You know, international travel is brutal. But Bob and Karen were there, and I wanted to get your kind of impressions. What do you think the big themes this year were at token twenty forty nine?

**[03:12] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. Bunch of big topics. One thing that was notable is that it felt like meme coins had almost completely vanished, and there was a lot of that the previous year.

**[03:20] SPEAKER_00:** And Can I pour one out for the meme coins, basically?

**[03:24] SPEAKER_01:** In meme coins defense, I'm actually kind of pro meme coin. The problem is just the time horizon that peep people wanna make money in, like, seconds. Like, I I think if a meme around a concept, if it can kinda grow organically for some period of time, is is, like, great. But but, yeah, it's just the impatience and nihilism seems to increase with each cycle. But may maybe maybe not this one. So conference felt kinda less scammy in general. And lot of digital asset treasury talk, I think we can go into that as we go. Lot of stable coin talk. You know, a lot of, you know, merger with TradFi sort of feel. I also think something has changed, and I I can't tell, like, if it's just that we're all being bombarded with the same content or or something's qualitatively different about the world. Where, like, a year ago, it felt like the crypto was sort of peripheral to the problems with the world, and now it feels like it's, a big part of the solution. It's very strange. And and everyone sort of acknowledged that, you know, like, Donald Trump junior Donald Trump junior was there. Like, that's a big change over where you just feel, you know, it like, some some weeks ago, like, Putin made his comments about, like, how The United States was trying to use stablecoins to export American inflation, which is probably true. But it's it's like, that's a big turnaround. It's like a from the top policy as opposed to just and you felt that at the conference as well.

**[05:12] SPEAKER_02:** Well, I mean, that that wasn't new on the on the Bitcoin conference side. So I was in Nashville 2014 and Vegas sorry. 2014, twenty twenty twenty twenty four, and then and then this July in Vegas. So in Nashville last year, you had Trump, RFK junior. Then this year, you had both Trump boys. Don Junior and Eric were both there. And oh my goodness. I'm forgetting his name from The UK. They they will come to me in a second. But yeah. And and I also, you know, like, tons of other congress people and state level stuff. Like, that's been a real theme well in advance on the Bitcoin side. I mean, I guess, essentially, because you've just already got that monetary store value use case. It's like getting into these boring ETF, you know, treasury company, government level adoption sort of stuff. That that's happened earlier than on the Bitcoin side than more generally. But yeah. Also, I mean, obviously, like, the Trumps have got their world liberty nonsense going on and gotta be pumping that one.

**[06:14] SPEAKER_00:** Well, I actually, that's a good transition. So, you know, we couldn't internally, were kind trying to decide whether the conference was more boring or more crazy than usual. You you kind of have talked about the boring elements, I guess, you know, more institutional. And I'm curious, like, you know, since this is in Singapore, a very global conference, like, what countries outside The US seem to be moving in this direction? You know, like, obviously, The US has been a holdup for a really long time. But, you know, how are things getting boring, and how are things getting more global?

**[06:43] SPEAKER_01:** Bob, I wanna remind you not to criticize our friends in in Washington, at least in a a public forum. Supporters of the yeah. Yeah. The the power I'm not I'm not getting back in.

**[06:52] SPEAKER_00:** So

**[06:53] SPEAKER_01:** the yeah. So so it's an interesting feel, the the conference. I would say it obviously represented people who are close by pretty well, but also, you know, some good number of people in from, let's say, UAE, some Europe, plenty of Americans who did the really long trip. Lots lots of Americans, I would say. And, yeah, I think it's a strange the the institutional feeling was much stronger than the prior year. Mhmm. And it's it's not that much time to have passed. Like, there were many you know, the the stablecoin stablecoins have this institutional feel to them even, you know, at the beginning. They they didn't. And it is funny to watch, like, you know, I see see these announcements. Like, you know, Tether's coming to The US, and we've, you know, set up a nice regulatory framework that, you know, they can they can work with. And I went to a side event and met some of the Tethr people. It's also just funny to see them, you know, in the in the media, like, buying sports teams and, you all of that. Like, at a certain point, you get big enough, you become institutional. Right? Right. Yeah, I think, you know, the it it even last year, it felt like blockchain technology at the maybe at the lower levels of the stack disproportionately gets created in the broader West. Right? And maybe that with the exception of some of the exchanges and such, and it gets used outside the West more. So you see stable coin balances. Yes. They're big in The US, but it's kinda really a global story. Tether, in particular, being, like, much larger than Circle. Obviously, I think both of them you know? Tether purports not to serve The US. I'm sure there's plenty of US USDT holders. Circle may be preferencing The US, but probably covers global as well. It's it's a yeah. So the I think it's a funny feeling in which the part the people at the conference are a little more like users than builders. And there's also just I mean, the feel token is a little like someone described it to me kinda like Comic Con, and I thought that was actually very apt. Like, there's people in funny, like they're, like, astronauts. You could take yourself as an astronaut with Justin Sun pictures that they call as fun. And, like, lots of, like, outfits, and I think the world's tallest man was there. That's sadly in a wheelchair. I think he has a hard time standing Yes. For at least for long periods of time. I was it was like, you saw this, like, horse in a wheelchair. Was like, no. That's a human. Like, you know, like, it's a Wow. Like, a really large, I I don't know, eight six or seven ten or something. Like like, a really large human being. Well, he he probably has to be in a wheelchair just so he doesn't bump his head on every door frame that is out there. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And so, you know, the the the mix is definitely a big global conference. I think they usually get the number you hear is, like, 20 ish thousand people. Coming from hubs. You know, again, a lot of UAE, good some of the European hubs, and big US contingent, very long flight for us. But, yeah, it was it was great. You know, Singapore also just a great place to to hang out and and pretty good representation of the global scene, if you will. There's also the feeling that the same people are manning the booths last year to this year. I've also heard very expensive conference, but the companies have in many cases changed, except for, like, the very big ones, you know, know, the headliners, people get invited to the stage, etcetera. A lot of turnover in who was represented at the conference. So, you know, in some ways, being a media company is one of the the better ways to, you know, survive cycles in in crypto.

**[12:03] SPEAKER_00:** You know, just someone will pay that big conference fee. Yeah. And and it seems those fees are getting bigger and bigger too. Right? That's just very, very expensive.

**[12:11] SPEAKER_01:** I I got a. Garbage? Okay.

**[12:13] SPEAKER_00:** So, yeah, it's I I we don't wanna keep you too long. Obviously, you got important things to do in around the house. Bob, what do you think about the global and the boring part of it?

**[12:24] SPEAKER_02:** So yeah. I mean, I guess just something else to say that is I have been to a lot of conferences. I've never seen so somewhere with so much floor space of expo halls. Just on and on and on, like, honestly, like, city blocks, many, many city blocks worth of of stuff. You know? And then you you you go, alright. Yeah. There's another whole floor of this. Yeah. Yeah. It's twice as much as you thought.

**[12:43] SPEAKER_00:** Even bigger than Zeppelin in Thailand last year? Because I remember looking, you know, getting my step tracker and, like, seeing, oh, man. I I did 15,000 steps in the conference center. Know?

**[12:51] SPEAKER_02:** But, yeah, in terms of the expo area, certainly. You know, like, DEFCON was a large, you know, floor area, but it was lots and lots of different rooms of of of talks. Right. Right. And then little stores, whereas this is just, you know, expo hall of selling. I don't know what most of them were. Thousands and thousands of projects that you've never heard of doing a thing that is pretty indistinguishable from everybody else. So, yeah, talking about the the the turnover care and I mean, I'm sure that that's the case is the vast majority of them are gonna be gone in a year's time and never even know they they happened.

**[13:24] SPEAKER_00:** But So do you guys think the boringness comes from institutions themselves or what they're doing? Because everyone seems to be doing, like, stable coin or treasury company. You know, like that. Those seem to be the two options.

**[13:35] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. I think it's a strange thing in which, like, the meme meme coins ended to some degree with the US elections and, like, I feel like Libra was really the end, you know, in which, you know, the a coin associated with a public official did pretty badly for the the people involved. Excuse me.

**[13:52] SPEAKER_00:** And Sorry. I I thought you were talking about the Facebook

**[13:54] SPEAKER_01:** Libra. No. No. No. Yeah. The the But you mean the The Malay associated meme. Malay associated. Got it. Gotcha. There's a coin as well, wasn't there? Yeah. I think it was before, though. I feel like that was not the end to end. But but, yes, it's sort of, you know, I I think they've kinda peaked. It pumped up funds still seems to be doing lots and lots of launches in revenue, but I just no one is really talking that much about it anymore. And we're getting back to something like, you either have to have tech or now you have to have revenue. And it's gotten, you know, almost like a mirror of the public equity markets in which people are, you know I I I something I like, when I talk at more length another time, I keep seeing criticism of, say, Uniswap because they generate a lot of fees. But a lot of those fees go directly to the lab company, and they don't go to the protocol or and they they have to turn the protocol fees on and would then start theoretically buying back the token. Whereas folks like Hyperliquid, there's no lab skim, and there are pretty big buybacks going on. And the token price has gone up and, you know, people argue, Uniswap has a kind of conflict of interest there. But, anyway, the to the point being, like, suddenly, all became about, like, revenue, US dollar denominated yields, like, how to do not quite a SPAC. Like, most of these treasury companies are an existing public traded pub publicly traded company, and there's, you know, maybe not a formal takeover with a change of control, but usually, like, in an injection of capital that the company is doing something else right now, and then it starts digital asset treasury operations. You know, like, there there's panel Tom Lee gave a lot of, like, numbers on how big his digital asset treasury company is, what chunk of ETH it holds, you know, now, what the trend is, all that sort of thing. And they've I guess Michael Saylor kinda pioneered I don't know if he was there. I don't think he was. Some of the financial engineering that kind of creatively let him acquire as much Bitcoin as possible, and all these folks are then kind of in the I would argue, like, a part part of the mindset, people make complicated products that sort of favor the house in a sense. Yeah. So that, you know, no matter what, like, the client has an idea, but the the institution does okay. Right? And some analog of that is going on. You know, people are purchasing. Like, a lot of the time, you would just want to hold tokens directly as opposed to invest in a digital assets treasury. I guess, I I think the digital asset treasury is maybe better than the ETFs. The ETFs promise to do nothing and charge a fee where the digital asset treasuries don't really charge a fee and maybe do something creative. So, you know, it's like it's the entrance of a new venue of financial engineering, but I I also think they're kinda brilliant in the following sense. It's a tremendous pain to be a public traded, say, US company. It's expensive. There's a lot of compliance burden and so on. Tokens are out there. They get liquidity in in some ways. You might want liquidity from The US public equity markets for your token. You could do this by IPO ing a company. Like, Coinbase is sort of a vehicle for that. But then you gotta, like, report on the extremely complicated, no doubt operations of Coinbase, and it's whatever thousand employees and, you know, all that. Or you could just have a thing by the token, and then you, like, never have to IPO the labs company. And you can kind of just get all of the capital without the much heavier reporting burden of being a publicly traded actual company. And this is, like, kind of genius. Like, the it's a a great way to bring in more kind of bigger, more boring, more conservative capital while not changing the premise that much. So so, yeah, it's gotten the suits are good at that. You know? And the digital asset treasuries provide a good wrapper for the, you know, thing that probably most of us would hold as spot.

**[21:04] SPEAKER_00:** By the way, we have a comment from who says he loves your take on meme ecosystems. Yeah. Yeah. Not surprisingly. Somebody has their own meme ecosystem.

**[21:15] SPEAKER_01:** You got a hold of the memes. That's the key. Shout out to you, Sheba.

**[21:18] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. Bob, what so what do you think about, you know, treasuries and stablecoins?

**[21:23] SPEAKER_02:** Yeah. I mean, I you know, I guess this is all sort of maturity, and it's it's a strange kind of feeling, you know, looking back on all of our joint experience sort of on enterprise Ethereum efforts kicking off in in 2016, 2017. And really the thought there that all of these public and private use cases could all be met by suitably modular code bases and thinking EVMs. And and, you know, and here we are. You know, that you've that you've got, you know, you've got Stripe announcing tempo and having a, you know, a consortium of of companies doing doing that kind of payments, you know, set up. And then you've got, you know, Nasdaq announcing, you know, equities on chain again with a with a Besu derivative and then you've got base and and coin base and, you know, all of these things are happening in a very similar kind of form to what we were shooting for all that time back. And that's, you know, while these things are are kind of a bit boring, it is also quite amazing that we've got to that place that these very conservative incumbents have

**[22:16] SPEAKER_00:** have caught up without thinking. You know? Yeah. It's it's pretty amazing. Well, I think part of it, and maybe one of the reasons as builders, we find it boring is that effectively, there are no tech innovations really that are driving this. Right? It's really it's really about people who already have a bunch of money pouring more money into it. You know? Yeah. I felt the seams of it. At a time,

**[22:37] SPEAKER_01:** you know, I think most much of the space was extremely eager for institutional approval even with some, you know, nominal hostility to it. And I I now feel the emotion that, like, I'm like, I almost don't want it. I'm like, get get out of here. Like, I I want I wanted to go back. You know? I guess I'm happy maybe about the, you know, asset values, although it's not not my primary motivation at all. But I hope that they don't because the the thing you see with, like, you know, the let's let's the the web two world, while the Internet remains at least kind of open, the people use, like, six apps. And so it's just pretty easy to affect the whole planet of users of the Internet just through these six apps. Yep. And I kinda it could easily happen that way in crypto where crypto itself remains totally open. But, like, as a for instance, so so the company, we have a Coinbase account, which we use a little bit, and they are way more difficult and onerous and making information requests all the time than any bank I've dealt with. It's bizarre. Like, they try to introduce a, like, white list for, like, the accounts you could send out to. This is, a month ago where Mhmm. Like, apparently, you could turn this feature off, and it's for your protection, you know, in case in case someone's gotten in there. But it's like, you're you're worse than the thing you said that you were, like, setting out to destroy from a is it our money perspective. And, that feels you know, I I'm happy that the genius act passed, I think, but it also has that feel too. Coinbase itself is now in, like, a fight with the banks. Like, wait. Wait. Wait. We didn't mean we didn't mean you could do the this thing. We we wanted all yield bands. You know? So

**[24:36] SPEAKER_02:** it's giving me Yeah. Well, I mean, I a little bit. I guess they they they do get leaned on more than the banks. So right? Because they're they're kind of in this new energy area. So, you know, all of this stuff is just very rigid and defined and the borders never move on the bank side. But then, you know, on a on a crypto exchange side, it's kind of a bit of both, and so they're always gonna be moving around a bit, they're always gonna get wiped down. I think fintechs

**[24:59] SPEAKER_01:** in general, they're, like, maybe a little leaner, probably a little faster on things than the banks. And it almost feels like they're overzealous in terms of their compliance posture because they feel that they can get kicked around in a way like, the banks are you know, tons of them have been leaned on too, right, in in very much the the same way, but it's it seems like a slower and less aggressive process somehow.

**[25:19] SPEAKER_02:** Well Yeah. Well, I mean Sorry. Go I mean, because they're not because then because they're generally not trying to do new things. Right? You know, the fintechs are moving around, so it might be like, we're all compliant and good today, but then we might be doing a new thing next week and, oh, no. They don't like that. So we've we've gotta be on on good behavior, get the brownie points. Whereas the banks are very rarely doing anything new and different, so they they don't really worry so much, I don't think. Yeah.

**[25:46] SPEAKER_00:** I mean, I I kinda feel like what we've really seen is just, like, regulation was, like, the lid on a bucket. And the minute you move that lid, the demand like, the real level of demand that we're seeing now is what sort of always existed,

**[26:01] SPEAKER_01:** but it's just been held back for a really long time. Yeah. The I don't know if you ever so the Circle IPO was kind of crazy. It was it showed, you know, just, like, how much it went up after listing, like, how much pent up demand is out there if this is even, like, slightly allowed.

**[26:15] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. And I and I I feel like the treasury companies are a similar thing. Right? Definitely. Of the things. So well, while we're getting to that point, how do you think things are getting a little bit more crazier than last year?

**[26:25] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah. Things are happening fast. The the turnover is still huge in the space. I would say there are still lots of good new projects that feel like they come out of nowhere and are pretty successful. Like, I'm friends socially with the CEO of lighter, and, like, he told me about it, like, a year and a half ago or two. Like, I read the paper. I was like, I kinda kinda get it. Like, circuits for matching and some on. It's like, it's huge now. Like, like, over and then the decks wars are just sort of heating up. The perp decks is there's, like, a new perp decks. I'm in it. Yeah. I think I guess the the pace at which things can happen seems to just be accelerating. And the cycles so I talking to a friend who's kinda investor, kinda runs an incubator sort of thing, and he he said that he's done better not thinking about it as a four year cycle anymore because it sort of it feels like they're compressing and they're kind of mini cycles within the cycle. And, yeah, I mean, I suppose just everything is heating up in in that way. I'll well, a friend of ours sort of made a joke. So so in The US, probably in Canada, we do not have a booth babe culture. Maybe I'd I'd heard that, like, you know, this existed in That that used to be Yes. We had one once. As as someone who is gone to, like, give me conference illegal at this point. Yes. I think booth babes are gone. But token was very much like a booth babe conference. And in fact, they they were sort of, like, almost, like, seemingly more of them than last year, and then this led to, like, does this mean we're near the top? Like, you know, like, is the the price speculation at at a maximum, at this moment? And I got you know, it wasn't euphoria, but people were feeling pretty good. And I like a conference when people are feeling a little shitty. Right. Because because then, you know, there's there's room for things to run. I I think yeah. Like, for better, for worse, interest in the industry as a whole just trends upwards with prices. So, like, it it's good for us for for prices to go up. But, yeah. I mean, it I could see I think the the digital asset treasuries too are also evidence that it's kind of late cycle. But even still, stuff is just happening really quickly. Like, the I I think, products kind of mostly work in crypto now. There's a strange moment where, like, DeFi just worked, and this is part of the the the reason where we we really got into it. It definitely, like, only kinda worked through 2021, 2022, maybe even 2023. And then it just kinda functions, and it's big. Like, every week or so, I see, like, one of the people tweet, like, how big it would be compared to The US banks, and it's like, 47, 43, 36. You know? It's running. And so there's a feeling of inevitability that kicked in for me, like, a couple months ago that, you know, has has I've never quite felt.

**[29:05] SPEAKER_00:** What about you, Bob? What did you find, you know, on the craziness level? What do you think is

**[29:10] SPEAKER_02:** I can't have been in the right bit of the building. I didn't see any booth babes. Where were they? Saw lots of people that lots of people in, like, the costumes, like, you know, the the mascots or what have you. But something else I was I was just thinking, which is good, talking about top signals, is there wasn't an excess of ripple representation. So because that's always a good out of ripple. It because that's always a good top sign. Right? Is if if there's lots of interest in in XRP, it that that signals new entries into the into the market.

**[29:38] SPEAKER_01:** I wonder if that's changed. It it used to be like, I I've the the joke that I've both experienced in my face to face life and, like, on crypto Twitter, it's like when you're, like, dentist or realtor friend asks you about what you think about Cardano or Ripple, then it's time to sell. You know? But

**[29:51] SPEAKER_00:** the There was plenty of char

**[29:53] SPEAKER_01:** There's plenty of char There was plenty of charles, but no no ripples. No ripples. Yeah. I wonder. What was it? I think BNB flipped XRP recently.

**[30:04] SPEAKER_02:** They did. I just saw that. Yeah.

**[30:06] SPEAKER_00:** Up up to number three. Amazing. How are you guys feeling about, like, you know, like, having been in the space for so long that long term projects like MetaMask are now launching a token?

**[30:18] SPEAKER_01:** Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's this is another part of the crazy. This is a good reminder. I think it basically just a lot was held back by uncertainty. And, so, like, the high quality stuff. A strange thing about the Gensler era was that the it felt like at least the eye of Saurum was on the good projects.

**[30:35] SPEAKER_00:** Mhmm.

**[30:36] SPEAKER_01:** And the bad projects in a sense were sort of left to run. And the good ones so, like, like any industry, like, if you looked at all of the businesses, most of them are bad. Most of them are go out of business. And if you imagine if you, like, made all the businesses publicly traded, most of the stocks would go to zero. So you would kind of expect in crypto that, like, most tokens are bad. You know? It it it's sort of like what you would see if you just made essentially no barriers to entry to, like, publicly listing stock, not the tokens or stock. But anyway. So, however, if you kind of market cap weighted, you would probably find that the things near the top are pretty high quality. And then sometimes things will come out of the bottom and go go into the top, but they're, like, by and large, you should sort of forget about that long tail of things. And it it did feel like to a significant degree, the the eye was on the big things, and it tried to destroy them before there was a token or freeze them or or what have you. And it left the the bad stuff to run amok contributing to the impression that the space was just, like, all scams. And, like, it might be all scams by number of projects. Like, the average project might be a scam or just not worth any value. But, like, the average business is, like, not a good business. But the big ones are good most of the time. Not all of them. And I they're kind of just being allowed out. You know? Again, Circle IPO, good example. MetaMask token. You know, it's like, probably they shoulda had one a long time ago. Like, they've been using it for a long time. They probably wanted a token. You know? Well, I I remember the height of this for me was when the SEC filed

**[32:18] SPEAKER_00:** charges against Binance and Coinbase in the same week. It's like we're just gonna look at something with the word exchange in it and then go after that. Right? Like, it's like the most compliant exchange and the least compliant exchange. You know? It's No. And it's

**[32:30] SPEAKER_02:** I mean, the other thing that you have there was, yeah, it was like the good actors that that were getting the legal action. Yes. Exactly. Basically, because the the the good actors were, you know, staying onshore and trying to work through the thing and get to a resolution. Whereas all the baddies are just like, yeah, we're out of here. We're not serving US people. Right. We're a scam away. We're not even gonna make any effort to be compliant of anything and you can't get us, you know. So it was almost by definition that the good actors were the ones that got whacked because they stayed around to get whacked and kept coming back for more and more whacking until, you know, it it the whacking ceased eventually. Yeah. But yeah. But yeah. I mean, I think another crazy thing is I think we're gonna have masses of ICOs, like, tons and tons of them coming up.

**[32:59] SPEAKER_00:** Well, on that, I think we've crossed the thirty minute mark. I want to ask you guys, do you have any closing thoughts about token $20.49 or where we're at in the overall state of blockchain?

**[33:10] SPEAKER_01:** One thing I would say, I was reminded, food is excellent in Singapore if you for Hawker markets. Those who haven't heard. There was a hawker market in the conference. It was kinda crazy. They, like, made one. You know? It was very cool. Awesome. I'm pretty optimistic. These are good times. Lot a lot of work ahead, obviously. I think but, yeah, it feels like it was a good marker of some sort of tipping point. Again, for a couple months, I've been feeling the inevitability kind of based, even though I parts of me doesn't like it, on the institutional buy in. It's gotten to the point where I think they don't just roll it back like they did last time. Like, you know, customers are demanding it and, you know, like, I think, like, people who said they'd never custody crypto just, like, stood it up quickly and, you know, it's probably too intermingled now to really remove the, you know, the the next you know, if if sentiment changes towards crypto in the in the in The US and and elsewhere. And then there's, like, a lot of thinking to do about what you know, completing the product, so to speak. Like, it's it's a strange thing in which retail was in for a while, and maybe got burned kind of culminating with FTX. It probably hasn't come back all that much and the institutions are in now, which means that retail will eventually come back. And we cannot burn retail again. You know? Like, it just has to be better than I think we're we're one of the things we think about is just the absolute experience as a totality has to be better than whatever service it's displacing, banking, you know, FX exchanges with what whatever. It's not all financial services, obviously, but a lot of them are. And this includes things like sure people don't lose the keys somehow or or what have you. So there's, a a needle that's right there, but I think that's gonna be a lot of what the

**[35:24] SPEAKER_02:** next phase is about. Bob, what do you think? What Well, and I mean, I think I I think the way that that will happen for a lot of retail is that they're not gonna have their hands on directly. It'll all be through these instruments. So their experience is just, oh, yeah. I've got a brokerage account and there's those in it as well, but they kind of they look indistinguishable to, you know, to commodities or equities or bonds or anything else. It's just, yeah, there's some more financial instruments and then you go. So I think I think that's your your sort of speculative retail, you know, crypto as an investment people. What I think is gonna be more interesting to watch is sort of the payments side, you know, especially with the strike project there, you know, if you get to a place where lots of just regular payment flows can be using crypto rather than fiat, that's really interesting, you know, that you can start getting real velocity of non speculative use. Because everything really is at this point has pretty much been speculation or, you know, a little bit of of payments, but not really any large volume of payments, you know. Early on, it's like, you know, buy you buy you a coffee with Bitcoin and that didn't last very long and that kinda hasn't really come back. But really with the stable coins and these large, you know, integrations, you know, like PayPal as well. You know, PayPal are doing things. Mastercard have announced stuff. I'm sure, you know, all of these payment rails are gonna be joining in on the game, and that really changes things.

**[37:06] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah. And one question, like, are we going to DevConnect? I know me and Bob have already bought our tickets. Karen, you're the holdout. Can I get a commitment? I'm still a probably.

**[37:15] SPEAKER_01:** Let me, I one, I've never been to Argentina. I really do wanna go. But

**[37:20] SPEAKER_00:** I I really wanna see what's going on. Yeah. I I've been to South America, and I really wanna see what's happening in the crypto world over there because you hear a lot about it. Obviously, there are big exchanges and big projects there. So I'm just really kinda curious to find out what Vitalik said he's more likely to get recognized in Buenos Aires than in The US, say. Yeah. Well and so if you like this content, please join us every week. We have this at the same time. Oh, and follow us on Twitter at straddle mercada with an a and join our telegram community. Bob, if they wanna hear more from you, where can they find you?

**[37:48] SPEAKER_02:** Yep. So I'm just Bob Samuel, send us my name on on Twitter.

**[37:51] SPEAKER_00:** And, Karen, where can people find you?

**[37:53] SPEAKER_01:** K James. So shortened, but but my name also

**[37:56] SPEAKER_00:** on on Twitter slash x. And you can find me at Vic for long on Twitter. Bob and Karen have both shamed me publicly because I have so few followers even though I was an early adopter. So please,

**[38:04] SPEAKER_02:** please connect to me. Love to hear from you. What what's the four about? What what's the vic four? What's what's the So four

**[38:10] SPEAKER_00:** is a four is a number that no Chinese person likes because it sounds suspiciously like that. So it's an you know, back in the world of eight character usernames, I could always get Vic four one because having an Asian name with the number four in it, like, pretty much guaranteed that I could get it. Always doing things the wrong way. Exactly. I'd never heard that joke before. Okay. Thank you, everyone. See you again next week. Take care. Cheers, guys.