**[00:01] SPEAKER_03:** We are on, and welcome everyone to our recap of DevConnect Argentina. I'm Victor Wong, founder and CPO at Strato. Three CPO? Three CPO. Maybe. Three CPO. I may be looking very robotic, so if I am, then you know, like that.

**[00:16] SPEAKER_04:** So let's go around the horn and introduce ourselves before we kick it off. Kieran, you want to go? Sure. I'm Kieran. I'm our CEO. I guess, you know, okay, so Strato, we have been, I guess we're hard announcing it now. We are... The labs company, if you will, has always been called BlockApps. And I'm actually the CEO of BlockApps as we're transitioning to a main net open source kind of foundation given project. First, we called that Strato Mercado because kind of Mercado was sort of a separate product and we've kind of purposefully sunset everything else. So going back to the OG Strato at this time. So I guess I'm the CEO of Strato too, as Karen has announced.

**[01:23] SPEAKER_01:** I think I've already changed it in my mind. So maybe it's not like, and, and thanks for that, Bob. Yeah. And that's it. OG, OG. So, uh, Strato was, uh, you know, unveiled at DevCon one, um,

**[01:35] SPEAKER_03:** I don't know what exact date that was. You know, it might be almost exactly 10 years like right now. I think it's very close to 10 years. I think it was early December, maybe a week off. No, no, no. I think it was in October or November because it wasn't that cold. It was in London. And I remember it was not miserable yet, which is normal during London at that time. I will keep looking off to the side. Okay, you're a resident historian, Bob.

**[02:13] SPEAKER_01:** I see a YouTube video, December 11th, 2015. Now there's a later though. They got released later. Yeah. Yeah. So, well, Bob, you, um, do you want to do a quick, who are you? I'm head of ecosystem. So, you know, joined the team this year, but, uh, you know, long time, long time friend. Yes. Long time listener. First time caller, right? Yeah.

**[02:43] SPEAKER_00:** And Jim, who are you? I am James from SDR. I am CTO of BlockApps and one of the three founders.

**[02:51] SPEAKER_03:** Yes. And of Strato too, as Karen has announced. So let's dive right into it. What were your impressions of DevConnect and Buenos Aires? Who wants to start here?

**[03:04] SPEAKER_04:** I guess I can quickly, hopefully quickly. I know we all have a tendency to ramble. One of my big surprises, let's say the city itself. I was surprised to find that I was in Europe. I was expecting to be in South America. And I guess everyone knows this. They call it like the Paris of South America or something, but quite beautiful place.
The mix of like the food varied from really excellent, especially on the steak front. That is all true for if anyone is on the fence about the Argentinian steak, go go and try it to, you know, like medium, sometimes, you know, service very slow. The city does not look that big. Like somehow, you know, like all of the hotels near the venue were booked out. So I ended up staying about 20 minutes away by car and If there's no traffic, it was like nine to 12 minutes away, but it was consistently about 25 minutes away. It's all like, it's all kind of like mid rises, like four to six or eight stories. And it's like that for like a pretty large geographic area, which I found quite interesting. Yeah. It had like a, little bit of an old world feel it's kind of narrow uh but yeah super cool people are very nice um maybe except for the slow service wasn't like snooty slow service it was just a slow service you know so hard to get things you had to budget more time than you expected for things which we found out the hard way but um would go back very cool place

**[05:18] SPEAKER_03:** And what about DevConnect itself? How did you feel about the conference? And, you know, you might want to mention, like, you know, what was the reaction to prices tanking during the event itself? We'll tell you the other thing that we should mention first is what DevConnect even is. Oh, yeah. So as a resident historian of Ethereum, what is DevConnect?

**[05:42] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, so it's a major conference held by the Ethereum Foundation. There's actually two different conference series that run now. So DevCon, which was originally Developer Conference, obviously has become not a Developer Conference anymore. I don't know when it was last a Developer Conference. Maybe two, probably DevCon two-ish. Maybe. It kept getting bigger. Two was big, but not huge.

**[06:12] SPEAKER_04:** I'm thinking in terms of the content, though. No, I know, but they kind of correlated, right? Yeah, yeah. The more people that wanted to come, the lower percentage devs somehow. Well, I kind of remember at 2 they had DevCon, and then, like, next to it they had, like...

**[06:31] SPEAKER_01:** I think it was called like World Blockchain. Yeah, I mean, that one was a combined event. But yeah, I guess probably DevCon 3 probably in 2017 was the switch over where you had like a thousand people. So it switched from a, you know, meet your peers, talk about all the different development projects going on to more of a, you know, hey, here are the big talks and, you know, whoo.
But yeah, we're on to, we have seven now. So, you know, DevCon 7 was in Bangkok last October, I think. But yeah, they started doing DevConnect as well, which is really,
Intended, I guess, to not be a conference, to be a collection of different events connecting developers and community. So I was expecting it to be a fair bit smaller, but it absolutely wasn't. But it did have a different flavor to DevCon in that you...
it was lots of little things you know lots of many events many under that same banner obviously side events as well but
even if you just got like a ticket for the main thing with a theme of World Fair, you know, of really, you know, bringing people from around the world to to to show what they're they're working on. But I didn't expect it to be as big. Like, I think it probably was as big as DEF CON really in the numbers. I mean, I really yeah, I mean, effectively, I think they've become the same. It's just, you know, basically

**[08:27] SPEAKER_03:** whatever they were trying to kind of keep it small and more developer friendly it's and but i think you know in terms of signal-to-noise ratio these dev cons are probably still the highest compared to more businessy conferences you know what i mean like in terms of actual getting some technical stuff jim what were your impressions of devconnect and uh buenos aires you can i've i've heard you said you're worried about being too negative but

**[08:52] SPEAKER_00:** There is no... Go for it. Yes. I mean, there was a lot of good stuff down there. First of all, I actually in part to avoid having a huge flight down there, I broke up multiple destinations down South America on the way there. Saw a lot of really cool stuff in Central and South America the week before.
and Argentina is beautiful. Conference itself had some very cool things there, but I think I really sort of preferred the format of what happened in Bangkok the year before. There were certain things about the format here that were sort of made it difficult. First thing is that
there was less going on at the main venue and we had to like spend a lot of time sort of like signing up for all these offsite things. And these offsite things were like big and would go on for hours. So sort of pull you away from the main event for the whole day.
maybe you could kind of come back at the end of the day. But then I tried that a little bit at first, like, you know, I signed up for like an offsite thing and then I kind of came back and, and once I got to the main event, you're sort of just wandering around and it was, it was hard. I, you know, maybe did you guys like find a good schedule for what was happening right there? Because mostly I was just walking around and,
There was one area, I guess it was the yellow pavilion where the big room was, and you could get a couple small talks there, but mostly it was just sort of

**[10:49] SPEAKER_04:** like outdoor study areas and not as much going on in the main area. I don't know. What did you guys think about that break apart? It was haphazard, but I liked a bunch of the main stage talks. There were a few good ones on the Friday. There were good opening ones. And then there was a little amphitheater that had some of the good like DeFi app talks. But I agree it was sort of like a crapshoot.
The registration procedures, sometimes you had to register for an event that was inside the venue. Sometimes that wouldn't work, but you would go like by the booth or whatever, and they would just tell you like, oh yeah, just don't worry, just show up.
You know, and so like it contributed to an impression of like never quite knowing, like agendas weren't really posted for any of these side events. They were not even really posted for the main event until like the night before, like they were kind of,
lazily, I mean in the computer science sense, updating the agendas as you went, so to speak. So it was very hard to come in with a target and hit everything with that target. You kind of had to just sort of
go with the flow and, you know, it doesn't feel optimal. But I actually, you know, I still got quite a lot out of it, even with that. But, yeah, the endless registrations were quite annoying, you know. And, yeah, there were big side events in the event, small ones. Like I discovered a couple days in there was like a quite large, like, polygon side event in the main menu, you know. And...

**[12:35] SPEAKER_00:** Yeah, it was sort of hard to... What I liked about Gamecock is because everything was right there together, and you could kind of walk to something else. That's way better. Yeah, you could kind of test something out, and if it was looking silly, you could just run out and find another room. And so it allowed you to kind of...
I don't know. It's like looking for a movie on Netflix or something. You can try a bunch of movies and then settle on one versus like the olden days where you had to buy a ticket to go to a theater. And if you bet wrong, you're out of luck. That's what a lot of this felt like is like I would sort of sign up for some event and then that would be like half an hour drive out of the main event.
And by the time things would start, if it hit me I was into something silly, I'd still be like, well, maybe I should stay a little bit longer. I did sign up for this. And I can't sign up for another thing right now. So main area, I had a couple of good ones there. But often, just the topic wasn't something I was interested in at the moment.

**[14:03] SPEAKER_03:** Well, I found what was kind of strange was that you signed up for these like large blocks of time and then you wouldn't, the agenda wouldn't be clear when you were signing up. Right. And then you might like see one good talk in that, you know,
like some of them lasted like nine to five like so you get like one good talk in there and then people were just hanging out like co-working and having coffee and whatever for most of it and the talks were like in this tight segment that they didn't name until like much later yes exactly and some of them were important like you know Vitalik saying something and then the rest of it were like

**[14:38] SPEAKER_00:** you know, hit or miss kind of afterwards, right? So it was... I tended to find out about Vitalik speaking by seeing that he was speaking. Yeah. Like... It was like... You happen to be there, and then he's, like, coming on, and, like, yeah, like... And I kind of would have liked to have seen that, too, but the thing is, is I had signed up for a thing, and I was, like, across town when Kieran mentioned, hey, Vitalik's speaking here now. And I was like, well...

**[15:07] SPEAKER_03:** That was a day that I probably chose unwisely, too. I wasn't happy with the talks I had gone to that day. Right. Well, speaking of that, maybe we can touch upon some of the big themes at DevConnect. Let's start with sort of the headline thing about Vitalik saying elliptic curves are going to die. That seemed to make a lot of news. And quantum computing was coming for us all. What were your thoughts on that?

**[15:29] SPEAKER_04:** This is a Jim question. I guess, yeah, let's start with Jim. Bring out that background, Jim. I'll pass this to Kieran. OK, so I will say that both Jim and I have a physics background, but mine was more from like the math side where we're like good at the beauty of the equations, but like don't necessarily have it as an intuitive sense of like
The physics people were good at estimating the answer and then back working into the actuality of it. The math people might have actually been better at the math side, though the physicists are quite good at it, but less so. So nevertheless, I had spent some time in quantum and the machinery on how a quantum computer might work and so on. I still don't have that much evidence that it's coming soon.
But would you really, I don't know. It's like, it's hard to keep secrets under wraps. Like I think probably governments and private sector researchers are putting like a bunch of money into it. But for a long time, there were these like Google got it to 20 qubits and they stayed together for 10 to the negative seven seconds instead of negative nine. And it computed the divisors of 63 or whatever, something like that, right?
And so, yeah, I mean, I think, I don't know how we would know when quantum is coming. Like, we would know these coins are stolen. But even then, like, you might not want to do that. I think, I also think the cryptography tends to come back pretty fast, right?
when new crypt analytic tools come in, like I believe there's already quantum resistant stuff and it'd be a hard switch over. Like, but once you knew that the Bitcoin were still getting stolen, you might still have, like, I don't know how, like, do you steal them all in one, you know, 10 minute segment or like, is it still kind of slow and you have a little bit of time to migrate over or you just snapshot all the balances at one date when you're pretty sure?
that I don't know how we would deal with it, but I guess I'm often skeptical, but color me a little skeptical on quantum happening much faster than people expect, which is the real scenario we're worried about. It's one of those stories that's always in the news, like, oh, there's some big breakthrough or progress in quantum computers coming in a couple of years, but that's what they've been saying for decades now, so.

**[17:58] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, and it seems like a bunch of people are, I mean, I would say quantum resistance was a big theme. Like there were a lot of people claiming either research or advances in quantum resistance at the conference as well. So it seems like Ethereum is probably better situated to implement a quantum resistance. I mean, it would be painful, but, you know, like it would be very hard to do it on Bitcoin more structurally, I think,

**[18:20] SPEAKER_01:** They like change less. Yeah, exactly. But what do you think, Bob? What was your impression of that? Yeah, I mean, I don't know. You can't really tell when the thing's coming up. I'm not worried, really. It's like everyone's talking about it, so it'll be fine. Yeah.
Everyone's very aware. It's a known problem that a bunch of people are working at it, but no, it's unknown when it's going to hit us, I guess is the way I'd put it. Yeah. I mean, honestly, you know, there are chains that have already got quantum resistance stuff. It just seems to be like a cost thing from what I can see is going, okay, well, it's probably not a problem. So why would we make ourselves less competitive now? Like, I don't think it's a market winner.
of saying oh yeah like we're like 10x slower but you know we're resistant yeah um but but it's obviously you know an incoming matter though the the hotter matter really is is privacy i think that's really uh well i think the heart i mean the other thing in between those two things is zk so maybe we can i mean bob i know you have some thoughts on that maybe we can start with you this time
Yeah. So, I mean, talking about where we went, I was mainly just in the main venue with the exception of the day before the main event where we had the second Ethereum Cypherpunk Congress, which is a good fun event.
and the other thing that there was on the final day was the ethereum privacy stack event so both of them were organized by web3 privacy now um the second one in collaboration with the uh the privacy guys at the ethereum foundation so that is a pretty new group
I think about 50 people working on that. 50 people. Wow. A lot of youth. I mean, good for them. Wow. So yeah, you know, pretty serious and in multiple different areas. So they've got the
The Kotaku project, which basically seems to be like SDK and tooling to help with integration of privacy features into wallets using existing projects with Railgun being a key one. Basically like, hey, here's how to plug in privacy into an existing wallet. And we've kind of done most of the work. Also,
On that one of the major main talks that there was on that last day was Vitalik and
Roger Dingledine, great name of Tor, really talking about the Torification of Ethereum, which is planned. So that was a bit of a reveal that there is work underway to look at all of the different levels and components of that protocol stack and work out how to un-unify them really.
or at least make them tool friendly, including things like the block formation, you know, and the validator, you know, leader stuff and hiding all of that. I want to jump in quickly on the Congress. I want to hate a little bit first. I saw the Infinite Garden appear on the screen again. Like a DevConnect, you mean? Sorry.

**[21:54] SPEAKER_04:** No, no. I'm a type of Congress. I'm not sure you saw that one. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I took a picture of it for the record. Put it in the show notes. We're like halfway to a wartime EF, but we've like kept the old generals and like put them on the National Guard or something, the Coast Guard. You know? Yeah.
Uh, and let me connect this to, to sort of like a, a broader point. I really liked that you saw a bunch of the old faces at DevConnect. People have been around for a long time. Like when I watched the, um, Sky and Uniswap talks, um, they did seem, you know, Sky has always formerly MakerDAO, um,
I'm against this rebrand, but they seem to really take being a DAO seriously, where a lot of DAOs is sort of like marketing and you kind of don't, you know, it's led pretty top down. But like, you know, they were up there talking about,
the DAO way of doing things. They've got proposals that you vote on. I'm sure it's still a little bit oligarchic, but they really meant it, the DAO part, on some level. I was talking to a cool guy who I need to follow up with, actually, with Victor, and we're showing him the app on the phone, and he was like, oh, are you getting a whole node on there? I was like, no. Those days...
We've given up on this dream, I think. It's like the thing is to be fast. And you're not going to run the note on the phone. Even if you could, it's going to melt. Maybe one day. Maybe the tech on the watch. Yes, note on the watch. Exactly. On the Apple Watch. So I'm making fun of it a little bit. But I like that these people still exist. And it's like 2017, 2015. Yeah.
the same things. And in that same conversation, we're talking to an old friend of ours. He's like, yeah, Railgun, it's great, but I want it to go harder. I want there to be one account for the whole network that all activity goes under. And then you use your ZK receipts to pull out what's specific to you about all that. I was like, hell yeah. Let's go hardcore dreamer cypherpunk.
You know, and almost no other conferences like that. Like I haven't been to like a big Solana builder conference, but I assume that those are like pretty commercial just from the whole Solano ecosystem ethos. I'm surprised these people are still around, but this is great. So I wanted to, you know, throw a plug out that if you're on crypto Twitter too much, you worry that just like,
literally everything about the industry is price action. And there are still some true believers. It's kind of the same people that it was in somewhere between 2015 and 2017. So left terrorists did a good tweet, a good little video clip, actually, because left terrorists

**[24:59] SPEAKER_01:** Um, you know, famously one of those, uh, OG builders, uh, with rot key, um, portfolio management software that he has as his main product being offline, you know, so it's a local app. It was, he had a good new phrase as well, which was aligned apps with that alignment being with you, the user.
Not, you know, some weird Ethereum alignment or anything, but saying it's on your side. But the tweet that he had was one of the terrible things that was there was the network. Like the Wi-Fi was just wrecked. Like many of the days, like nothing.
Even data on your phone, pretty shit because there's so many people doing it at the same time. But he, he did a little video saying the network's down, but my app still runs look. But I will say, I mean, on that kind of like, I, I, I would.

**[26:10] SPEAKER_03:** not to push back against what you're saying, but like, I do think the privacy people have kind of gotten more customer aligned than purely philosophical aligned. Like in the Ethereum Privacy Summit, I heard many times like, yes, we want consumer privacy. No, we don't want to support North Korea or pedophiles, which seems to be the right line to draw. You know, it's like, I think it's,

**[26:35] SPEAKER_04:** Well, okay, there's a debate. Bob, do you want to jump in? I ran into Amin during the conference who seems to have created this debate. You might have more context on it than I do, but I'll backfill if need be. Yeah, sure. So I guess specifically there,

**[26:49] SPEAKER_01:** you have this philosophical question of if you do have a privacy tech, should that be unconditionally single anonymity set with the whole world?
know do obviously the larger anonymity set that you have the better security you have with the ideal being it's everything you know it's all transactions for for everything so i mean that's the scenario that you have with uh with monero though monero is
You know, using ring signatures at the moment, there are plans for use of ZK to, you know, it's a full membership proof thing that they've got proposed, but right now it's just ring sigs. But it's on by default, you know, so privacy on by default, mixing with everything by default.
On the other side, on Zcash, for example, you can have transparent transactions or you can go into the different shielded pools. So the one that you're talking about in particular is privacy pools. So privacy pools, I think, was either a suggestion from Vitalik or Vitalik was one of many
He's on the paper. Yeah. Yeah. A number of coauthors, but, but I mean, um, Soleimani is, is a primary guy. Um, and Zach Cole as well. Uh, they just did a raise at Oxbow, which I believe raised three and a half million. Um, but the approach, quite a responsible number in the, uh, yes, it's maybe about how much it might cost to develop the technology and a little bit more. Um, but, uh,
yeah the approach there and it was really in reaction to the legal action on tornado cash um was really saying okay well if you do this blind um privacy approach you do intermingle yourself with north korea and terrorists and crime yeah and the monero reaction to that is
Yes. But if you can back up, sorry, just to finish the thought there. So yeah, really a primary thing was like not wanting to have that disassociation, but also not wanting developers to go to jail.
and saying, if you can credibly show, look, here is a ZK proof that shows that I am not in the same group as these known baddies, then, you know, that's a kind of a responsible middle ground. It does affect your anonymity set, but maybe not that much. Let me add maybe the flip side argument, but also, so I...

**[29:18] SPEAKER_04:** Never a user of any of these technologies. I'm sure I will test some at de minimis amounts at some point. The Tornado Cache, terrible name. You know, I think the
I believe that it actually also contained a capability at least to prove source of funds on one side. So like you could prove that your funds were acquired legitimately, even if they were obscured later.
I don't think you can do a severability with the bad funds. And that's the key point that Amin was telling me is the difference. But I think the counterfactuals, what the hardcore other side cypherpunks would say is something like, well, what about cash?
All cash is dirty. It's all been used in some bathroom to get some illegal substance from point A to point B. You know, it's really the preferred still technology for certain kinds of money laundering and all that sort of thing.
they're serial numbers, I guess, but we don't go and say cash is the problem. And the anonymity set of cash includes lots of bad acts. And so this presumption of guilt, if you're putting your money in the pool, you're aiding and abetting North Korean money laundering.
I don't buy it at all. And, you know, on the other side, like you don't want to seed that argument and everywhere in the world is trying to seed that argument. Like the banking system definitely has like a guilty by default ethos, like prove everything about you. And we're going to surveil every transaction and, you know, we'll tell you if you're allowed to bank basically. I mean, I think there's certainly a very valid argument on that side of,

**[31:25] SPEAKER_01:** sort of like this supposition of you going, but it wasn't me, sir. Here's my ZK proof, I promise. What's a ZK proof? Like what are you even talking about? Exactly. So if you pick this like half step, you're kind of just saying, oh, you use this privacy tech, but you're like, what are the easy ones to pick off? You know, like, I don't know. And it makes it a permission system again. Yeah. And you could say, oh, it's only a bit, but...
Yeah. I don't know the details. Amin said it does break the fungibility, which is kind of a way of saying the same. It's like with Bitcoin. You have tainted ones and not. But talking to Zach, it seemed a primary motivation wasn't so much of being compliant as it was, we don't want any more of our friends to go to jail. Totally. Yeah, I guess. And maybe that's a passing phase.

**[32:45] SPEAKER_04:** It's that these, yes, at the same time, I don't really know what the Tornado Cash people did other than build software. Could have been more than building the software, you know. There's no way that building some software like should count as like a conspiracy to launder some money.

**[32:59] SPEAKER_01:** Like that's never applied in any other case, really, maybe except as regards the crypto industry. Also worth saying, though, I think is that many parts of the world are not so progressive as the US on that matter. Yeah.

**[33:14] SPEAKER_03:** Well, Jim, I think we're starting to get, you know, we're a little bit over 30 minutes. I wanted to kind of touch base with you. I know you're still pretty jet lagged on what were your impressions at the conference, especially since you attended a lot of agentic AI talks too. So, you know, how real is that? What do you think about whether, what were your big takeaways from the conference?

**[33:41] SPEAKER_00:** Well, I was pretty excited to go to anything AI. But I don't know, we're sort of like in the hype, part of the hype cycle right now. And I went to, on the first day, to one where multiple, I don't know, it was like typical people speaking would be like somebody who had like,
put together a company where they were using AI to, you know, maybe go and do DeFi trading or something like that. And it would like sort of holistically understand what's happening in the world and try to use that to trade. And like, I don't know, like there were like panels of people where it was like multiple people with a variant of that story. And it was all very inspirational sounding and a little bit,
light on the details, but everybody was very excited by it. But I'm sitting there listening, and I'm like, there's no way that, like, this stuff is really cool. There's no way they're doing it. And I remember, like,
Like, you know, it would be a much bigger deal if some of these succeeded. And most, it's funny because at these events you can still have, like, a lot of marketers are there, but there's still enough, like, geeks there that sometimes people just blurt out honest things. And after hearing, like, lots of marketing speak, I remember, I forget who it was, and I probably wouldn't say who it was anyway, but one guy, they were like,
They were like, they had been spinning up this whole story again, like I had said before. But they were like, oh, and this actually works. And he got a little too honest. And he was like, oh, if this thing actually worked, do you think I'd be sitting here right now? And so that was sort of like the theme to me. It's like over-promising some really cool ideas, but it didn't.
look like it was actually, and this is kind of the case in AI in general right now. There's like huge breakthroughs. AIs can do a lot of stuff that would have shocked me, you know, just a few years ago, but it's hard to get them to actually sort of complete the whole job for you or actually, you know, like work as advertised. So that's what like the common theme I was seeing there in these talks.

**[36:07] SPEAKER_01:** Did you see anything with post apps? Any kind of post apps sort of like, hey, look, you can just AI drive this and, you know, that kind of text or voice interface as opposed to UI?
I'm confused. Post applications, right? Soon we won't have applications. Post apps, yes. Or was it more infrastructure stuff that you were seeing? It looked like infrastructure stuff, what I heard, but there were many, many groups up there talking about it. The trading bots are arguably post apps. I mean, you kind of

**[36:41] SPEAKER_04:** probably tell them what to do and they like theoretically give you more money than you had you know when you gave it to the
is the like a little financial manager. But I also like I think I've said before, like when I've test driven Klein and told it to like go do a swap on our test net, it can do it, you know? Yeah. Yeah. But it's like it goes pretty slow through the UI. It's like understanding it visually. And, you know, like I don't know that it's that much easier than a human. But I think
I think you could mostly give a declarative intention to an AI like, hey, like, I want to rebalance from Bitcoin into Bitcoin and ETH. Well, I think they can do it, but it's not like, you know, sorry, good, Jim.

**[37:28] SPEAKER_00:** Well, I guess there is a subtle distinction between like an agent and like a helper or just like using AI as the UI. And as like an autonomous agent, that's the stuff that seems not quite baked to me yet. But I saw a couple talks where people were talking about just like using it in place of the existing UIs that are out there right now.
to help you each step of the way do things. And that probably is great. We all sort of use AI and that kind of thing.

**[37:58] SPEAKER_03:** Yeah, I did hear a very interesting talk by the people formerly in FIRA, but now DIN, like Decentralized Infrastructure Network, who were talking about really thinking about AI agents as users and how to make it easier for them to interact with the network. So from that point of view, I do think that there's some, I don't think it's really replacing UX. I think it's

**[38:15] SPEAKER_04:** more targeting a different class of user entirely than AI agents. Let me add to that. For a long time, I've been worried about our mobile story. During the conference, I was using our app on mobile a bunch. And while I'm still worried about it, I think in many cases, it will be leapfrogged by just like, hey, chat, go do this thing in this app for me. And
There's a downside to that in that we have just yet another aggregator, but an upside in that you might not have to make a really slick mobile app. Yeah. And I think that'll continue. And I do...
I don't use that pattern much yet, but it's something we should definitely lean into. And I've also seen pretty funny things. Some B2B SaaS, Twitter handle, made some posts where it's like, yeah, we sold the Enterprise, our app. We wanted them to use it more. So they made an AI to use it for them, and they're using it more.

**[39:16] SPEAKER_03:** Well, what you described, though, I heard the MetaMask team, they're really talking about intents, like trying to kind of like, you know, instead of like making you do a lot of clicks or stuff, just tell it, okay, this is what I'm trying to achieve. And then like, find me the best savings, right? And then we'll go and do off all of that stuff.

**[39:32] SPEAKER_04:** I know we're over time, so I want to go around the horn and say, what is the biggest takeaway you got from this DevConnect? Let's start with you, Kieran. Privacy seems much more viable now than I thought. I've been generally a skeptic, even us having worked on it a bunch.
But I think there are pretty solid mainnet live use cases for it that work now that we could also incorporate. I honestly think if we're talking about consumer mass adoption, you can't really have these clear text balances.
Yes, it's pseudonymous, but it makes everybody uncomfortable. Bob is fond of quoting the time when very obviously one of the Ethereum core devs moved like a quarter billion dollars into Binance or whatever. It's like, it's not. I've tried to accelerate our privacy roadmap in response. Jim, what was your big takeaway from this conference?

**[40:25] SPEAKER_00:** I think, well, the coolest thing that I saw, if it's real, is, you know, ZK is also one of these things which is prone to overhyping. But it seems like maybe scalability of Ethereum might be solved through some ZK means sometime in the next couple of years.
If that really happens, you know, maybe I've heard something about that before, but I probably just ignored it. But people were talking about it like it's around the corner right now. Looked into it a little bit. If it does what they say it does, it could be pretty impressive. So that was exciting to me. Bob, what was the biggest takeaway from you?

**[40:59] SPEAKER_01:** Yeah, and I think that's true on a few different pieces, both in terms of that privacy, but yeah, also scaling. I think some of these things have taken so long. Here we are 10 years in.
just looked it was november the 10th by the way the uh the strato talk on congratulations yeah exactly almost exactly but yeah some of these things have taken 10 years really to get where we thought would get in a few months even and yeah i think that will be like you know the the zkification of the l1
would basically you end up with not really doing any execution on the old one it's just proofs of things that are happening up above in whatever um execution that environment that might be so yeah i'm feeling very like we didn't talk about the price action but that does not at all to my mind reflect where we are on the tech which i think it was a really positive
Uh, checkpoint for me of like shit, like a lot of these things. Yeah. We're kind of like really there, uh, and things moving really fast. So, you know, if we, if we look back in five years, say, or even three, um, I think we're gonna be in a, a great place where it's like, we're almost feature complete maybe.

**[42:36] SPEAKER_03:** software is never really feature complete but i would say that i guess the biggest takeaway i had is like i think this dk proving um which is different than the compilation part has come way faster and way down like last year when they were talking about it you know i think a typical proof took minutes and required 48 gpus and you know now i'm seeing two gpus and like closer to kind of the 10 second real-time holy grail that we're getting to
Like when I looked at the things on fboot.org, I was really impressed with how close it was and what people are doing there. So I think we'll call it there because we're already 15 minutes over. But where can we find you? I'm Victor Wong. You can find me at X at Vic4Wong, W-O-N-G. Karen, where can we find you? K. James Levin on X and most places. Jim? Jim?

**[43:28] SPEAKER_00:** uh still twitter and uh i've also forgotten my handle again i should probably you should remind me next time to look it up it's what was it john john or something i looked it up but i can't it was like two weeks ago okay i'm going to keep asking you

**[43:42] SPEAKER_01:** You're good. This is a weekly pop quiz for you, Jim. So you better learn it. Look at the notes on our website. I always like do the link. I always apply to that and correct it. And yeah, so I'm Bob Summerwill. Summer like the season and W-I-L, write your will on Twitter. And thank you for joining us. Take care. I'm looking at my handle right now. It's Jamsheed Hormoz.

**[44:09] SPEAKER_03:** You get a 50% just pass. That's even more embarrassing than failing. His own.